Incumbent Evo Morales declared victory in Bolivia's presidential vote Sunday. Official results have not been announced, but a national exit poll placed Morales in the lead with 61% of the votes. Victory would mean Morales, of the Movement for Socialism party, would lead the country until 2020 in his third consecutive term as President. "We thank the Bolivian people for this new triumph," Morales told a crowd of cheering supporters in the Bolivian capital of La Paz, vowing to make his country the energy capital of South America. "This democratic triumph of the Bolivian people is dedicated to all the people of Latin America and of the world who fight against capitalism and against imperialism," he said. "This triumph, brothers and sisters, is dedicated to Fidel Castro (and) dedicated to Hugo Chavez, may he rest in peace." Morales, 54, is the South American country's first indigenous President. Four other candidates were vying for Bolivia's presidency in Sunday's vote. As vote tallying began, analysts said that victory was likely for the leftist Latin American leader, given his performance in the polls before the election and Bolivia's economic growth since he took office. "The distance between Evo Morales and the rest is so great, that obviously I don't expect a surprise," economic analyst Carlos Toranzo told CNN en EspaÃ±ol. "Most voters are in favor of Morales because they want the economic boom of recent years to continue." Morales, a former union leader for coca growers, won his first election with a campaign that promised a government focused on the needs of the country's poor. But as an ally of Chavez, opponents have accused him of using the system to concentrate power. Last year, a court ruled that he could run again, deciding that his second term in office was his first under the country's new constitution. This time around, he ran under the slogan, "With Evo, we're doing well." Since Morales took office, the country has seen economic growth while many of its neighbors have struggled. Last year, the GDP grew 6.5%, according to government statistics. But some Bolivians say they haven't seen the economic boom cause much of a benefit for their pocketbooks. The normally bustling streets of Bolivia's capital were quiet Sunday. Voting laws prohibit cars from driving on election day . Voters told CNN en EspaÃ±ol that security and economic issues were key as they cast their ballots. "Bolivia has transformed impressively. I was walking on the streets, talking with the citizens, and all of them are informed. All of them want to vote," said Alvaro Colom, a former Guatemalan President who's heading a mission of election observers from the Organization of American States. Voting went smoothly Sunday, with no major reports of irregularities, Colom said. Morales enjoys widespread popular support at home but has run afoul of some U.S. officials with his outspoken criticisms of capitalism and U.S. drug policies. When he first ran for office, he declared himself a "nightmare" for the United States. In 2008, he expelled the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration from Bolivia. Last year, he kicked out the U.S. Agency for International Development, accusing the agency of meddling and conspiring against his government. He told a convention of farm workers in 2011 that he feared U.S. authorities would try to plant something on his presidential plane to link him with drug trafficking. Amid rumors that former NSA contractor Edward Snowden could be on his presidential plane last year, authorities in several European countries refused to let the aircraft land to refuel on its way from Moscow back to Bolivia. Snowden, who faces espionage charges in the United States for leaking classified documents, wasn't on the plane, but Morales had said he would be willing to give him asylum. CNN en EspaÃ±ol's Carlos Montero reported from La Paz. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet reported and wrote from Atlanta. Journalist Gloria Carrasco and CNN's Mariano Castillo contributed to this report.
Chris Froome conquered Mont Ventoux at the Tour de France to extend his overall lead with a week remaining in cycling's most prestigious race. In a fascinating battle Sunday, Team Sky's Froome caught and then passed Nairo Quintana during the steep 13-mile climb to give him a four-minute cushion over his nearest rivals. A spent Froome had to be given oxygen when the 15th stage -- the longest of this year's Tour at 150 miles -- ended but he'll get a chance to recover during Monday's day off. On Bastille Day French hopes were dashed, as Sylvain Chavanel lost his lead to Movistar's Quintana before the Colombian faded and Froome charged. "I thought he'd be less strong than he was," Quintana told the Tour's website. Froome has now won both stages with summit finishes. "I didn't expect to win," Britain's Froome said after nearly six hours of racing. "I wanted to get more of a buffer on the general classification but I didn't think I could go for the win. "Quintana is a very strong climber and I wasn't expecting him to go from as far as he did but hats off to him. He did a great ride and he showed how strong he is." Despite the gruelling end to the stage, Froome and Quintana -- one to watch for the future -- had time for a quick chat. "In the last (1.2 miles) he was fading a little and I still had a little bit left," said Froome. "I was just trying to say, 'Man, come on just a little bit more, we're almost there.' But he was slipping behind. "Near the end I don't think that I attacked. It was just that he couldn't ride on my wheel anymore and a gap opened up." On Friday, Froome saw his lead cut to under three minutes by Belkin's Bauke Mollema and Saxo-Tinkoff's Alberto Contador. After Sunday, though, he leads Mollema by four minutes, 14 seconds and two-time winner Contador by 4:25.
Two Southwestern senators say their colleagues might find some common ground if they start holding monthly bipartisan lunches. Sens. Jeff Flake, R-Arizona, and Martin Henrich, D-New Mexico, are lobbying their parties' top members, incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and incoming Minority Leader Harry Reid, to start holding the meetings. They've organized a group of 32 senators who made the request in a letter this week. They pointed to a "frank, open and fruitful discussion" the two parties held in the Old Senate Chamber in July 2013, and said more of those meetings might help -- especially with nearly half the Senate's members serving their first terms. "We believe that regular bipartisan meetings like the one in July 2013 can help foster the kind of productive relationships that will be critical for the Senate to live up to its reputation as the world's most deliberative body," the senators wrote to McConnell and Reid. "It is our hope that our respective leadership teams can take concrete steps to broaden the relationships and deepen the rapport among members," they wrote. "Specifically, we believe that monthly bipartisan lunches would serve this goal. Given that our caucuses already meet separately at least twice weekly, surely scheduling a bipartisan lunch just once a month would make for a workable option." Their request comes after months of howling about the Senate's ability to function. Republicans blame Reid, the outgoing majority leader, for failing to give their bills and amendments a fair hearing. Democrats blame the GOP, saying its members have been bent for years on obstructing President Barack Obama's agenda. Republicans captured the Senate majority in this year's midterm elections. McConnell will become the majority leader when new lawmakers are sworn in early next year.
Two different terror attacks by two different sets of Islamic extremists in two different democracies. But the difference in people's responses is what's key, and exemplifies why America truly is exceptional. I'm referring to the bombing in Boston, Massachusetts, on April 15 and the attack on a British soldier on a London street on May 22. After the Boston attack, which claimed the lives of three people and injured more than 250 others, a minor anti-Muslim backlash was reported. The most notable: A Bangladeshi man in New York City was allegedly beaten and a Muslim woman in Boston was struck in the shoulder and called a terrorist. And sure the professional Islamophobes, who make their living spewing hate, came out to sell their rancid goods of division and distrust. However, thankfully, and unsurprisingly, Americans weren't buying it. But in England, the backlash against British Muslims has been alarming. Since the terror attack on May 22, there have been 193 anti-Muslim incidents in England, that's 15 times the average number. These hate crimes ranged from vandalizing mosques to pulling off women's headscarves, to threats of violence against Muslims and to minor assaults. One of the most serious incidents happened Sunday night when three firebombs were thrown at the Grimsby Islamic Cultural Center in Lincolnshire, while worshipers were inside in the mosque. Luckily no one was killed. According to British media reports, this wave of anti-Muslim fever was not spontaneous. It has been an organized campaign of hate led by the right-wing group English Defence League, which held protests on the streets of London and Newcastle this past weekend. At its London event, EDL's leader Tommy Robinson told supporters: "They've had their Arab spring. This is time for the English spring." Of course, the terrorists who killed the British soldier were of Nigerian heritage, not Arab. But then again, bigots aren't the brightest, whether they're English or American. Obviously, the anti-Muslim attacks and rallies orchestrated by the EDL don't represent mainstream British society. In fact, an anti-racism rally was held in London to counter the EDL's march. And comedian and actor Russell Brand wrote a heartfelt column for the UK's popular The Sun tabloid, imploring his fellow Brits to remain tolerant and not blame all Muslims for the sins of two madmen. Another bright spot: At a smaller EDL protest in York, Muslims invited the protesters into their mosque and found some common ground in a properly British way, with tea and cookies and an impromptu game of soccer. But why didn't we see an angry anti-Muslim backlash in the United States after the Boston bombings killed and injured so many more people? A few reasons. Not only did the American-Muslim community quickly denounce the Boston bombing, but people of other faiths publicly stood with American-Muslims, including Jewish and Christian leaders in the Boston area. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying all Americans love Muslims. But there's a difference between not feeling too warmly about a minority group and actually advocating discrimination and hatred and committing violence against them. But the bigger reason we didn't see a backlash like the one in England has to do with who we are as Americans. Our nation's DNA can be found on the words affixed to the seal of the United States of America: "E Pluribus Unum" which means "Out of many, one." To most Americans, Republicans and Democrats both, these words are more than rhetoric. It's the promise our Founding Fathers offered, to welcome people from all different backgrounds to become one with us as Americans. America was, and still remains, a melting pot. And since its creation, that melting pot has grown; it has become bigger, more colorful and more vibrant. Sure, some are troubled by our increasing diversity. We see it in the angry rhetoric from those on the far right toward those who don't look, pray or act like them. And we regrettably see it in the hate crimes perpetrated against people simply because they are different. We need to look no further than New York City, the "bluest" city in the "bluest state," to see a spike in reports of hate crimes against gays, with 29 so far this year compared with 14 last year. Mark Carson, a gay man, was killed on May 18 while he was walking the streets of Greenwich Village. Carson was murdered simply because of his sexual orientation. We may never be able to end all hate crimes in a nation of more than 300 million people. But we must remain vigilant in countering the voices of intolerance and hatred. The reaction to the Boston bombings, in such marked contrast to England's reaction to the killing of the soldier, shows we are on the right path. By staying on this path, we will ensure that the United States remains truly exceptional. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.
The owner of a Houston day care where four small children perished in a fire will face four counts of murder in those deaths, court records showed Thursday. Jessica Tata had previously been charged with six counts of reckless injury to a child and several charges of manslaughter. She will be in court to face the new charges on Friday. Tata, who has dual citizenship in the United States and Nigeria, fled to the African nation shortly after the fatal fire at her Houston home in February. She was taken into custody almost a month later in Port Harcourt, Nigeria, by Interpol and U.S. diplomatic security agents, officials said. Tata's first stop on her return to the United States was Atlanta, where she was booked into the Fulton County Jail. After waiving her extradition rights during an appearance in magistrate court, Tata was transported to the Harris County Jail in Texas. Investigators allege that Tata, 22, left seven children alone at her Houston day care center with the stove on while she went to a store. Four children died, and three others were injured in the fire. U.S. Marshals joined the search after Harris County authorities determined that Tata had left the Houston area. They added her their 15 Most Wanted Fugitives list in early March. CNN's Antoinette Campbell contributed to this report.
(EW.com) -- Truly, ''D--- in a Box'' is the gift that keeps on giving for the Lonely Island, the nom de fake rap of "Saturday Night Live" star Andy Samberg and his BFFs, "SNL" writer-directors Jorma Taccone and Akiva Schaffer. EW.com: Andy Samberg to host Shark Week. Can he top Craig Ferguson? Since that brilliant, indisputably instructive R&B satire first appeared in 2006, the trio -- along with featured players like Rihanna, T-Pain, and a very game Justin Timberlake -- has had remarkable success in the notoriously difficult genre of ''funny music,'' hitting a neat balance of parody and sweet-natured homage (peppered with plenty of references to their respective junk). Now, two years after "Incredibad," a debut that collected many of the group's greatest, previously televised hits, comes "Turtleneck & Chain," a perfectly acceptibad follow-up. EW.com: 'SNL' skit men The Lonely Island reveal new album cover, guests Justin Timberlake, Rihanna, Nicki Minaj and more . On ''Motherlover,'' honorary Islander Timberlake returns for a deeply filthy, proudly MILF-y ode to ''pushing that way where you came out as a baby,'' while the triumphantly goofy ''I Just Had Sex,'' with Akon, manages to be both outrageous and entirely plausible radio bait. EW.com: Michael Bolton returns to 'SNL' after 20 years: Best thing he did in between appearances? Rihanna, Nicki Minaj, a sleepy, maybe-not-in-on-the-joke Snoop Dogg, and ''major cinephile'' Michael Bolton(!) all make appearances -- but it's the chameleonic core trio that truly surprises. At one point, over a classic, adrenalized hip-hop beat, Samberg and Taccone trade fierce criminology rhymes with a swagger that's downright serious. Until, of course, one notices the title: ''Trouble on Dookie Island.'' See the original article at EW.com. CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly . © 2010 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
(CNN)Through his work in fashion, Erik Schnakenberg was drawn to the classic Americana style that has seen a revival in the past decade. He was turned off by the price tag of American-made clothing: basic crew-neck tees starting at $50, unembellished selvedge denim jeans priced at $250 and up, Oxford cloth button-downs cut and sewn in Los Angeles ranging from $150 to $300. "It's that effortless design that most guys look good wearing, but it wasn't really happening for anyone except at the higher price point," Schnakenberg said. To help shrink the gap, Schnakenberg and his Los Angeles neighbor, Sasha Koehn, started a business with a goal of lowering the barrier to "made in USA" fashion. Buck Mason has been up and running since late 2013, offering a focused collection of American-made garments. Prices range from $24 for a t-shirt to $155 for its most expensive pair of jeans, about 25% to 50% less than comparable brands boasting the "made in USA" label. How do they keep costs down? By focusing on just a few items and cutting out the middleman so they can sell directly to customers through their website and storefront in Venice, California, they say. With the help of the Internet and social media, they have been able to build their brand and find an audience without the help of chains or department stores. "It didn't make sense for us to not do it this way," Koehn said. "Maybe that's us being naive or not thinking like a traditional business manager, but I don't see how we could have got this started any other way." Brands selling directly to customers is nothing new in retail, and it's still a big gamble for most. Traditional middlemen such as department stores, chains and boutiques help legitimize brands and expose them to consumers faster than brands may be able to build their own fan bases. But some small businesses are finding the cost of that exposure too onerous. By selling directly to consumers, brands increase their margins, control inventory based on their own projections and don't have to worry about returns from retail store customers. They also have complete control over pricing and may be able to offer lower prices to consumers, said Jack W. Plunkett, CEO of market research company Plunkett Research. Fueled by venture capital investors, there has been strong growth in new direct to consumer brands, and not only in clothing, Plunkett said. But very few actually manufacture in the United States because of the high cost of doing business, especially compared with global competitors. For Buck Mason, manufacturing in the United States is a matter of principle and direct to consumer a means to that end, Schnakenberg said. "It's that idea of looking at our product and taking pride in creating something from scratch. We may not sell 100 million t-shirts, but we can say we're to create one thing and make it all here and be part of the process," Schnakenberg said. To make direct to consumer work, Buck Mason and other plucky entrepreneurs are mixing aspects of traditional business models with customized approaches to production and marketing, taking on much of the work typically done by outside parties. They sell through their own websites and stores, retaining absolute control over branding and merchandising. They build audiences through social media, using it as a branding tool and a forum to seek customer feedback on styles and colors, forming relationships in the process. But it takes more populating a Web store or Instagram feed with aspirational images of attractive people to reduce margins. Brands offering specialty products that stand out have a better chance of surviving, depending on the product and its place in the global market, Plunkett said. "Overall, this is positive for the sustainability of U.S. manufacturing, but there are many cases in which it will be extremely difficult to have competitive prices when manufacturing here," he said. Instead of designing various products in different colors and styles, fledgling brands have found success in getting just a few items right, developing a cult-like following and adding products based on customer feedback. It's a model that has worked for Adele Berne and Mike Kuhle, who launched the e-commerce arm of their New York storefront, Epaulet, in 2008 with a button-down shirt for men and women made in the city. From day one, they have sold directly to consumers through their website and store, using social media to build a fan base that enjoys geeking out as much as they do over fabric origins and stitching details. Since then, they have expanded to accessories and footwear, and they offer custom suiting and shirts. Along the way, they have earned a reputation for offering quality products sourced and made in the United States and Europe. They partner with esteemed brands including shoemaker Alden and suit maker Southwick on products and offer a handful of other brands for sale. Through social media, Kuhle says, Epaulet has cultivated a fan base interested in the stories behind the brand, its creators and its manufacturing partners. Their customers see the value in paying more for products made in the U.S. or Europe, and they keep coming back. "Your product has to be unique, and it has to be something people want, whether it's filling a void for something people don't know they want yet, or it's something you see in market that you could do better," Berne said. Buck Mason launched with a simple T-shirt, working with a knitter in Los Angeles to develop a slub cotton before sending it to a mill outside the city. When it sold out, the company started working on a five-pocket selvedge denim jean sourced from North Carolina and cut and sewn in Los Angeles. It's an a la carte approach to production that takes more time and attention than the full-package manufacturing typically used by larger brands to fill big orders under one roof. The upside is that it keeps shipping costs down and allows Buck Mason to respond faster to market demands by placing small orders with a quick turnaround. Chris Sutton started out making one pair of jeans at a time in his Cincinnati, Ohio, workshop. As demand for Noble Denim grew, Sutton and his wife, Abby, scaled up production by partnering with a Tennessee factory that, like most remaining textile manufacturers, had seen better days. As the Suttons learned more about the factory's history and the town it once supported, they realized it needed more business to create sustainable employment opportunities. It was "hipster and naive" of them to think they could make a significant impact with small runs of premium jeans, Abby Sutton said, and they started pondering new products. They tested the waters with a small run of sweatshirts. After selling out within days, the couple decided to launch a Kickstarter campaign to raise funds for a new business. Sweatshirts sold under the Victor label will be made from organic cotton in the same factory as Noble Denim. Unlike Noble, which is sold in a few stores, Victor will be sold directly to consumers through the company's website and its brick and mortar store in Cincinnati. Cutting out the middleman allows Noble to control its brand instead of relinquishing control to wholesalers and create "stability" in terms of sales expectations, Abby Sutton said. "Everyone is oddly reliant on each other but not in way that encourages innovation." It also creates a quicker "feedback loop" through which the Suttons can listen and respond to customer feedback. That's how they heard from people who said they could not afford to support the "made in USA" movement even though they wanted to. Through Victor, whose products range from $25 for a tee to $85 for a hooded sweatshirt, the Suttons hope to rehab American-made style's reputation as exclusively high-end and inaccessible, she said. "There are people who value the idea of U.S.-made but have never taken the step," she said. "If we can make it for the same price as a Gap sweatshirt, hopefully people will see it as easy choice."
Former Playboy centerfold Cassandra Lynn Hensley was found dead at a friend's home in Los Angeles, the coroner said Friday. Hensley was 34. The autopsy on Playboy's Miss February 2006 was done Thursday, but the determination of the cause of death has been deferred until toxicology testing is completed, Los Angeles County coroner's Lt. Joe Bale said. Lab results usually take several weeks to become available. The model's body was found at 9 a.m. Wednesday in a home in the Marina Del Rey area, Bale said. Hensley, who lived in Fairfax, Virginia, told Philadelphia's Metropolis Nights magazine last month that there was "life after Playboy." "I have been a part of many great experiences: travel shows, magazine covers, and of course giving advice to young impressionable girls who think they need to act a certain way for a chance to be a model -- classy not slutty," she told the magazine. People we've lost in 2014 .
An explosion rocked the offices of Mexico's state oil company Thursday, killing at least 25 people and injuring 101, Mexico's interior minister said. Dozens of people were trapped in the building after the explosion, Foro TV reported. It was unclear how many of them had been pulled to safety, or whether anyone remained stuck inside late Thursday, Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told reporters. More than five hours after the blast, rescuers had pulled at least one survivor from the rubble, Mexico's president said in a Twitter post. Crews were still searching Thursday night for people who could be trapped in the Pemex office complex, which includes one of the city's tallest skyscrapers. Watch: Office explosion rocks Mexico City . The explosion occurred in a basement and collapsed two floors of a building adjacent to the well-known tower, said Carlos Javier Rodriguez Jurado, one of the first paramedics to arrive at the scene. The explosion tore through the building "from the inside out," he said, and rescuers found many people trapped. Six hours after the explosion, Rodriguez said people were likely still stuck in the rubble. It was unclear what caused the blast, and Mexico's attorney general's office is investigating, Pemex said in a statement. A large plume of smoke rose near the building after the explosion around 4 p.m. Thursday, and emergency crews swarmed the scene. "People were screaming. ... You could see pieces of the wall falling to the ground," said Joaquin Borrell Valenzuela, an attorney for the Pemex comptroller's office, who was in a courtyard outside the building at the time of the blast. Paramedics quickly arrived and started pulling bodies from the rubble. Are you there? Send us your photos, videos. "Entering the building, we smelled a strong odor of gas," said Christopher Rangel, a paramedic and firefighter. Outside the building, frantic family members searched for loved ones, and shaken witnesses described the explosion. Mario Guzman said he was on the 10th floor of the tower when he felt "a very strong blow." "We felt like the whole building was going to collapse," he told CNNMexico. Images from the scene showed emergency rescue teams carrying people on stretchers. Authorities said helicopters carried some of the wounded to hospitals. At least 14 people were hospitalized with injuries, and two of them were in serious condition, the state-run Notimex news agency reported. Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto surveyed the damage Thursday night, along with Osorio Chong and Mexico City's mayor. Pena Nieto cautioned against speculating over what caused the blast, and said authorities would be closely investigating. Thousands of people work at the Pemex headquarters, which includes a 54-story building that is nearly 700 feet tall. The explosion occurred in an annex building just to the east of the tower, Foreign Minister Jose Antonio Meade said. Officials evacuated the complex and operations will cease there until further notice, the company said. The state oil company's director, who was on a business trip in South Korea this week, said in a Twitter post that he would return to Mexico immediately. "We will get to the bottom of the causes in close coordination with the authorities," Pemex Director General Emilio Lozoya Austin said. "At this time, attending to the injured is the priority." Federal troops and rescue dogs were aiding in search efforts late Thursday night. As they combed through the rubble, a Pemex executive's cell phone rang, Rangel said. A man on the other end of the line said he was still trapped, and started to describe his location to rescuers. "Unfortunately, we lost communication with him," Rangel said. When they called back, his phone didn't ring. CNN en EspaÃ±ol's Krupskaia Alis reported from Mexico City. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet reported from Atlanta. CNN's Rafael Romo, Edwin Mesa, Christine Theodorou, Rey Rodriguez, Rene Hernandez and CNNMexico's Arturo Ascencion and Javier Rodriguez contributed to this report.
With Wi-Fi access at airports, hotels, and aboard airplanes, business travelers don't have to look very hard for a wireless Internet connection. Wi-Fi hotspots at airports may put users' computers at risk, but no more so than at coffee shops, experts say. But with these public wireless hotspots becoming more prevalent, in addition to more travelers using smart phones for Web access, are business travelers putting themselves at a security risk? The short answer, some technology security experts say, is yes. But they add that the use of Wi-Fi at these spots is no riskier than at a coffee shop. "It's a shared medium, and if you can connect to it, someone else can connect to it and monitor your traffic," said Marty Linder, a senior member of the technical staff at the Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute CERT/Coordination Center. "That has nothing to do with the security of the network. It's just the nature of the beast." For Fran Hanna, the convenience isn't worth the risk. The sales representative from Chapin, South Carolina, would frequently bring her computer on business trips and access Wi-Fi through her hotels. Hackers tapped into her computer, resulting in inappropriate material being sent through her account. She had to get her computer restored twice, which cost her $900. And while she still isn't sure where she was when she picked up the malware, she said the only wireless device she will bring with her as she travels is a cell phone for voice calls. On the other hand, picking up public wireless isn't a major concern to Brian Fitzpatrick, the CTO of a technology firm in Alpharetta, Georgia, and a frequent business traveler. He generally avoids transmitting sensitive personal or company data using these hotspots. But as he sees it, having his information stolen "is more likely to happen in some face-to-face transaction than it is even online." In addition to open networks, experts say the physical loss of devices poses a threat for business travelers. The combination of replacement cost, detection, forensics, data breach, lost intellectual property costs, lost productivity, and legal, consulting and regulatory expenses sets a company back an average of $49,246 per lost laptop, according to a study released in April by the Ponemon Institute and sponsored by the Intel Corporation. However, lost laptops with encryption saved companies nearly $20,000, compared with those that did not have encryption, according to the Ponemon study. Encrypted disks safeguard data by scrambling information on them. They unlock that information only when the user enters the proper passcode. "I don't know how many times we've heard about laptops being stolen and they have no encryption on them. And it pretty much means that the bad guys can get to your data. Immediately. They don't have to know your password or anything, they can just get to it," said Patrik Runald, chief security adviser for F-Secure, an Internet security company. And many businesses do not yet require their employees to use passwords on their smart phones, leaving lost devices "woefully unprotected," said Pat Clawson, CEO and chairman of Lumension Security. Tips for staying secure . Despite the potential for security breaches, there are simple steps you can take to keep yourself armed as you connect wirelessly on your travels: . • Use an encrypted disk to safeguard the information on your laptop or smart phone, Linder said, and make sure you log off of your computer when you're not using it. In most cases, when you hibernate your computer, its memory is recorded unencrypted. "You cannot for convenience close your lid, let your computer go to sleep and believe that if someone steals your computer, your data is protected, because it's not," Linder said. Runald recommended free software called TrueCrypt (truecrypt.org) that you can use to encrypt the content on your local drive and on USB flash drives. • Turn off your wireless and Bluetooth connections if you're not using them, said Clawson. "Those are electronic doorways into your devices. On my BlackBerry, I can sit there and scan for open Wi-Fi peer-to-peer connections. I [can] then gain access to what's in your files you may have stored in there, your contacts." • Use an anti-glare shield on your computer to prevent others from spying, Linder suggested. With such shields, you must be face-to-face with the screen to be able to read it. • Regularly back up the data on your laptop or smart phone, Runald said. Several companies offer backup services, but you can also save information on other computers and disks. Even if your data is encrypted -- eliminating your fear of sensitive information getting stolen -- backing up the data will make it easy to transfer to a new phone or laptop, Runald said. • If you lose your smart phone and don't want others to access your information, call your provider and request that the device be wiped of information, Runald said. He also suggested considering software that allows you to send a text message to your phone that will remotely wipe it and block others from accessing its content. • To ensure that you're visiting an authentic Web site and not getting duped by a phishing scheme, some experts suggest logging onto those sites through your company's VPN connection. But technology company CTO Fitzpatrick says he hesitates to use VPN from a public Wi-Fi hotspot: "Even though all the traffic is encrypted," he said, "if your machine got compromised in some way, it is sort of a gateway into your network."
(Mashable)  -- After the rumor that Apple won't announce the next-generation of iPhone in June or July (which was the case with all previous iPhone announcements), comes a report that the new iPhone is actually coming in the fall. While Apple's suppliers will begin production in July this year, the finished product is likely to begin shipping in September, Reuters reports citing sources familiar with the matter. As for what the actual features of the next-gen iPhone, the details are scarce as always; one of Reuters' sources claims the device will look similar to the iPhone 4, but it will feature a faster processor. To quickly piece together all the iPhone rumors and reports we've seen, this is what we have: the white version of the iPhone 4 should become available within 2-3 weeks; the iPhone 5 (if that's what Apple will call it) will be an evolutionary upgrade, visually similar to the iPhone 4 but with a better camera, processor and a bigger screen. Take all of these with a grain of salt as Apple has been monolithically silent about the matter, as always. © 2010 MASHABLE.com. All rights reserved.
The NFL has denied Minnesota Vikings star running back Adrian Peterson's appeal of a season-long suspension, league spokesman Greg Aiello tweeted Friday night. The decision was made by appeals officer Harold Henderson. Henderson said, "I conclude that the player has not demonstrated that the process and procedures surrounding his discipline were not fair and consistent," according to Aiello's tweet. In November, Peterson was suspended without pay for the rest of the 2014 season because he violated the league's personal conduct policy "in an incident of abusive discipline that he inflicted on his 4-year-old son last May," the league said. The National Football League Players Association said: "The NFLPA expected this outcome, given the hearing officer's relationship and financial ties to the NFL. The decision itself ignores the facts, the evidence and the collective bargaining agreement. "This decision also represents the NFL's repeated failure to adhere to due process and confirms its inconsistent treatment of players. Our union is considering immediate legal remedies." Henderson is a former NFL executive, according to the ESPN website.
The results of an environmental impact study into the Keystone XL pipeline project will be announced Friday afternoon, two senior administration officials and another source familiar with the timing told CNN. The sources were not authorized to speak on the record. "The (study) is in the final stages of preparation and we anticipate a release of the document soon," a State Department spokesperson told CNN. "As a reminder when it is released, (the study) is not a decision, but another step in the process prescribed by the Executive Order" from the President. What environmentalists and industry observers alike will be looking for is whether the study determines the project would be "carbon neutral." If it does, it's widely expected that the pipeline will ultimately win approval. Still, the process is far from over. Once the results of the study are out, eight U.S. agencies will then comb through it and offer their feedback. Secretary of State John Kerry will make a final recommendation to the White House. The president would then decide whether or not to approve the construction of the pipeline from Alberta, Canada, to the U.S. Gulf Coast. Supporters of the project, which would carry 830,000 barrels of oil a day, say it would reduce imports from other more volatile areas and create jobs. But opponents warn against potential damage to the environment and question whether many long term jobs would be created. A final decision may not come for several months, but this study is a critical step in the process and the results are seen as a key factor in determining whether the project will go ahead.
One of European football's grandest clubs has a new owner, with an Indonesian billionaire shaking up the established order in Italy's Serie A. Tycoon Erick Thohir is only the second foreign owner in the Italian first division after acquiring a 70% stake in three-time European champions Inter Milan. He has added Inter to what is fast become a comprehensive sporting profile after becoming the first Asian to own a stake in an NBA team as part of a consortium which purchased the Philadelphia 76ers in 2011. Thohir is also one of three partners who own Washington's Major League Soccer franchise DC United and has now followed in the footsteps of the American consortium, led by Thomas DiBenedetto, which broke new ground by purchasing Roma in 2011. Blog: Your country needs YOU! "Today is a truly special day in my life," the 43-year-old Thohir said  in a statement. "I am an entrepreneur, but first of all I am a supporter and a sports lover. I cannot wait to put our passion and international experience at the service of this fantastic club and its supporters." Inter hope the ownership change will give the club "a global footprint." While a new phenomenon in Italy, foreign ownership is more prevalent in the rest of Europe. The English Premier League has 11 foreign-owned clubs, including Americans in charge at Manchester United, Arsenal and Liverpool and Qatari money funding Manchester City's continued growth. Qatar also has interests at the top of the French league, with reigning champions Paris Saint-Germain bankrolled by Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani. PSG's rivals Monaco are controlled by Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev. Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Abdullah Al Ahmed Al Thani at Malaga is the only foreign owner in Spain's top flight, while there is no overseas ownership in Germany's Bundesliga. However, there will still be an Italian influence in the corridors of power at Inter's San Siro stadium with former president Massimo Moratti staying on as a member of the board. "I think Inter's history is going to be enriched by a new season thanks to our new international partners who, I am sure, will contribute to a continued string of successes," said Moratti, who has seen the team win 23 trophies under his family's stewardship. "The new partners' enthusiasm and pragmatism are certainly a guarantee for the future." The takeover reflects Asia's growing influence in world football, particularly in Indonesia. English clubs Chelsea, Liverpool and Arsenal all play matches in the country during preseason tours, while the Chinese Super League now boasts Italian World Cup winning coach Marcello Lippi, who is in place at Guangzhou Evergrande.
Better late than never. As those in green danced with joy and celebrated the apparent end of Mexico's World Cup curse, those in orange were already planning their flights home. Mexico, which had failed to win a last-16 match in its previous five attempts, finally appeared to have cracked it. Giovani Dos Santos' strike, which came in the 48th minute, looked like it had secured a quarterfinal place for only the third time in nation's history -- and the first on foreign soil. And yet, with the prize within its grasp, Mexico faltered at the last. With just two minutes of the contest remaining, step forward Wesley Sneijder. A man for whom nothing had gone right all afternoon. His passing was wayward, his touch was off and the quality with which he has been blessed appeared to have temporarily escaped him. But when the Netherlands needed the Galatasaray man the most, he delivered. With 88 minutes on the clock, the ball came out to Sneijder on the edge of the penalty area and he sent an unstoppable right-footed effort into the bottom corner. Cue the hysteria from the Dutch fans, who had already consigned themselves to an evening of drowning their sorrows and an early flight back to Amsterdam. In the energy-sapping conditions of Fortaleza, where the temperature pitchside reached over 100, Mexico suddenly wilted. For the best part of 90 minutes it had negated the attacking threat of the Dutch, seen off Robin van Persie and looked good value for a place in the last eight. After all, for a team which only qualified for the tournament following a playoff against New Zealand, a place in the quarterfinals would represent a huge success. Mexico, led by the charismatic and affable Miguel Herrera, have become one of the most difficult sides to beat. But when it needed its resilience most, it failed. Instead, Arjen Robben, the man who had tormented Mexico for large periods of the second half, was brought down inside the penalty area by Rafael Marquez. While the Mexican players protested following Robben's spectacular fall, their anger fell on deaf ears. "He dived three times, he should have cautioned him the first time," Miguel Herrera, the Mexico coach, told reporters of Robben after the game. "It seems to me the reason (we lost) was the referee, the man with the whistle. He left us outside the next stage of the World Cup. "If the referee starts marking fouls that don't exist, you leave the World Cup to circumstances out of your hands. We expect the referee committee to take a look at that and that this gentleman goes home, just like us." Herrera was still seething after the game as he addressed the press -- and television replays suggested he had a point. Nevertheless, a penalty was awarded and Klaas-Jan Huntelaar showed remarkable composure to fire low into the corner and break Mexican hearts in the fourth minute of six added on. "The players showed they had faith and belief until the very end," van Gaal told reporters following the 2-1 victory. "The humidity was not in our favor, so when you see that until the very last minute we were fresher and fitter than the Mexicans, that is a big compliment to my players. "Not only did they have belief but physically they prepared so well to play this match. That of course gives us enormous confidence going forward." Few would have expected such late drama, with the Dutch appearing to struggle to create many clear-cut opportunities before falling behind. Mexico, which defeated Cameroon and Croatia either side of a draw with Brazil, started positively and felt it should have been given a penalty when Ron Vlaar fouled Hector Herrera. Those appeals were dismissed by referee Pedro Proenca, as were the shouts from the Dutch when Robben was upended by a combination of Hector Moreno and Marquez. With both teams having slowed down play following the tournament's first three-minute cooling break, introduced by FIFA to combat dehydration in the hot weather, it was little surprise that the first half ended goalless. But the second 45 minutes proved a far more entertaining affair -- especially given Mexico's rapid start. Dos Santos received the ball 20 yards from goal and his fierce effort flew past Jasper Cillessen and into the far corner. That goal appeared to stun the Dutch -- a side which had swept all before it in the group stage. After all, this was a Netherlands team which had dismantled reigning world champion Spain 5-1, beaten Chile comfortably and fought back to see off Australia. But in the oppressive heat, the men in orange appeared to be toiling under the heavy sun. When the Dutch did get forward, they found the irrepressible Ochoa in the form of his life. Already a star following his performance against Brazil, where he produced save after save, the Mexico goalkeeper was at it again. First, he denied Stefan de Vrij from close range, pushing his header onto the post before standing tall to block Robben's effort. The Dutch looked down and out. And then it happened. Step forward Sneijder, one of the few experienced players who was there that fateful night in South Africa when his side was beaten in the final by Spain. With just two minutes remaining, his rasping effort flew past Ochoa and breathed new life into his ailing teammates. Huntelaar, who had replaced the ineffective van Persie, then converted his injury-time penalty to spark wild celebrations. A date with Costa Rica now awaits the Dutch -- for Mexico, it's home time once again. Brazil 2014 World Cup: schedule of matches .
Martin Kaymer and Graeme McDowell tasted team success at September's Ryder Cup, but the former major winners have had to wait a long time for individual glory this year. That ended on Sunday as former world No. 1 Kaymer clinched his first tournament win since November 2011 and McDowell posted his first victory since 2010 in another exhibition tournament. "I'm very happy to finally win this year, that was the most important thing for me because I was practicing very hard," Kaymer said after landing the $1.25 million first prize at the Nedbank Challenge in Sun City, South Africa. "I played very well the last few weeks and months, but it just did not happen for me on the golf course." The German finished two shots clear of South Africa's 2011 Masters winner Charl Schwartzel in a 12-man field that also included 2010 British Open champion Louis Oosthuizen and former world No. 1 Lee Westwood. Kaymer followed up compatriot Bernhard Langer's victory in the seniors event in Sun City on Saturday. "Bernhard has been a massive help for me. We talked at the Ryder Cup on the Saturday in the players' lounge when I didn't play at all, and we talked about the spirit and the attitude of the Ryder Cup, and you can use that for regular tournaments as well," Kaymer said. "So he has been a huge influence for me. There was a bit more pressure today because everyone was talking about the German double. But I'm very fortunate that everything worked out for me, and it's obviously very nice from Bernhard that he called me straight away." McDowell, meanwhile, upstaged Tiger Woods by winning the 14-time major champion's Chevron World Challenge event in California. The Northern Irishman, whose last victory came at the same tournament in 2010 after he also won the U.S. Open, finished three shots clear of last year's PGA Championship victor Keegan Bradley to claim the $1.2 million first prize. He was congratulated by compatriot Rory McIlroy, who last weekend ended his season as world No. 1 and leader of both the U.S. and European money lists. "Great win @Graeme_McDowell!! They should rename that event the Gmac Challenge! Enjoy the well deserved break!" McIlroy wrote on Twitter. Woods, who ended his own long victory drought as host 12 months ago, finished tied for fourth with fellow Americans Jim Furyk and Rickie Fowler.
A computer-science detective story is playing out on the Internet as security experts try to hunt down a worm called Conficker C and prevent it from damaging millions of computers on April Fool's Day. This piece of computer code tells the worm to activate on April 1, 2009, researchers at CA found. The anti-worm researchers have banded together in a group they call the Conficker Cabal. Members are searching for the malicious software program's author and for ways to do damage control if he or she can't be stopped. They're motivated in part by a $250,000 bounty from Microsoft and also by what seems to be a sort of Dick Tracy ethic. "We love catching bad guys," said Alvin Estevez, CEO of Enigma Software Group, which is one of many companies trying to crack Conficker. "We're like former hackers who like to catch other hackers. To us, we get almost a feather in our cap to be able to knock out that worm. We slap each other five when we're killing those infections." The malicious program already is thought to have infected between 5 million and 10 million computers. Those infections haven't spawned many symptoms, but on April 1 a master computer is scheduled to gain control of these zombie machines, said Don DeBolt, director of threat research for CA, a New York-based IT and software company. What happens on April Fool's Day is anyone's guess. The program could delete all of the files on a person's computer, use zombie PCs -- those controlled by a master --  to overwhelm and shut down Web sites or monitor a person's keyboard strokes to collect private information like passwords or bank account information, experts said. More likely, though, said DeBolt, the virus may try to get computer users to buy fake software or spend money on other phony products. Experts said computer hackers largely have moved away from showboating and causing random trouble. They now usually try to make money off their viral programs. DeBolt said Conficker C imbeds itself deep in the computer where it is difficult to track. The program, for instance, stops Windows from conducting automatic updates that could prevent the malware from causing damage. The program's code is also written to evolve over time and its author appears to be making updates to thwart some of the Conficker Cabal's attempts to neuter the worm. "It is very much a cat and mouse game," DeBolt said. It's unclear who wrote the program, but members of the Cabal are looking for clues. First, they know that some recent malware programs have come from Eastern European countries outside the jurisdiction of the European Union, said Patrick Morganelli, senior vice president of technology for Enigma Software. Worm program authors often hide in those countries to stay out of sight from law enforcement, he said. In a way, the Conficker Cabal is also looking for the program author's fingerprints. DeBolt said security researchers are looking through old malware programs to see if their programming styles are similar to that of Conficker C. The prospects for catching the program's author are not good, Morganelli said. "Unless they open their mouth, they'll never be found," he said. So, the most effective counter-assault simply may be damage control. One quick way to see if your computer has been infected is to see if you have gotten automatic updates from Windows in March. If so, your computer likely is fine, DeBolt said. Microsoft released a statement saying the company "is actively working with the industry to mitigate the spread of the worm." Users who haven't gotten the latest Windows updates should go to http://safety.live.com if they fear they're infected, the company's statement says. DeBolt said people who use other antivirus software should check to make sure they've received the latest updates, which also could have been disabled by Conficker C. The first version of Conficker -- strain A -- was released in late 2008. That version used 250 Web addresses -- generated daily by the system -- as the means of communication between the master computer and its zombies. The end goal of the first line was to sell computer users fake antivirus software, said Morganelli. Computer security experts largely patched that problem by working with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers to disable or buy the problematic URLs, he said. That process-of-elimination approach isn't likely to be effective with Conficker strain C, Morganelli said. The new version will generate 50,000 URLs per day instead of just 250 when it becomes active, DeBolt said. The first iteration of Conficker is thought to have grown out of a free function for security programs created by Dr. Ronald Rivest, a computer science professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Any technology can be used for good or evil, and this is just an example of that," Rivest said. Many viruses have taken pieces of benevolent programs and used them for ill. But overall the "open source" environment online promotes computer security far more than it enables hackers, DeBolt said. "I don't blame the open-source community at all" for virus attacks, he said. CA said it recently found a piece of code in Conficker C that says the worm will become active on April 1. Previous versions of the malicious software launched on specific dates noted in the program code, so the April Fool's Day launch date is not likely to be a trick, DeBolt said. "The best minds in the industry are working on this to protect customers," he said. "We're trying to reduce the impact of the April 1 date as best we can. But we know ... this malware will continue to evolve."
Basma Khalfaoui was helping her daughters prepare for school the morning she heard the gunshots. Unfamiliar with the sound, she thought maybe children were throwing rocks outside. Her curiosity drew her to the balcony of the family's third floor apartment in the quiet Tunis suburb of Menzah, where she found her husband's colleague standing next to his car, panic-stricken. "They hit him," he cried out. As she rushed downstairs, her mind raced. "At the beginning, I thought maybe they hit him with a stone or a knife, but not with a gunshot," Basma explained. After all, it wouldn't be the first time Basma's husband, attorney and opposition leader Chokri Belaid, had been assaulted in broad daylight. It was only a few days earlier that a mob of radical Islamist Salafists attacked him during a meeting of the Democratic Patriots Movement in Kef, a town about 160 kilometers (100 miles) southwest of Tunis. "One month before his death, as he was leaving a cafe in Pastor Square in Tunis, a number of people came looking for him and shouting his name while holding sticks in their hands," Basma added. As the most visible leader of Tunisia's Popular Front -- a coalition of a dozen leftist political parties formed last October -- Belaid had been tasked with countering the rise of the Islamist-led Nahda party, which swept into power following the revolution that toppled longtime President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011. Belaid had prepared for leadership from an early age. He was a legend of Tunisia's student movements and eventually founded the leftist Watad party. A lifelong human rights advocate, he championed democratic reform, secularism, and vehemently confronted the rise of radicalism. And as a result, he and his family were often the target of death threats, harassment, and on occasion, violence at the hands of his political opponents. "He was being watched before the revolution. After the revolution he got direct and written threats. The last threats came from the mosques, in which the Imams there called for him to be killed," Basma says. "They always used me and the two girls to threaten Chokri. He used to tell me about these threats in his own way in order not to put fear in us." But as Basma approached her husband slumped in his car, she discovered the worst. "I found him in the car. It was locked but all the windows were broken. I saw the traces of gunshots, and at that time, my only concern was to save him. But I made sure not to touch anything in the car for the sake of investigation." The assailants, according to witnesses, had waited for Belaid to emerge from his home. As he got into his car, a gunman approached and fired four shots which struck Belaid in the head and chest, then fled by motorcycle with the help of an accomplice driver. "Opposite to us, there was a medic. He lived next door... He was also worried so I calmed him down. My only concern at that time was taking Chokri to the hospital as soon as possible." Not long after the shooting, Chokri Belaid was pronounced dead at a nearby clinic. But this wasn't just another politically motivated murder in another unstable Arab country. Prior to Belaid's murder on February 6, Tunisia had been widely hailed as the poster child of the Arab Spring. Having ousted Ben Ali and having held free and fair elections, and while their Arab counterparts in Egypt, Libya, and Syria continued to struggle under the rule of dictators desperately clinging to power, Tunisia was setting the precedent for democratic transition in the modern Arab world. And though President Moncef Marzouki pledged Belaid's "odious assassination" would not derail Tunisia's democratic transition - it did just that. The assassination, the first time since Tunisia's independence in 1956 that a politician had been the target inside the country, set off a wave of political setbacks which caused a security vacuum, creating a vicious cycle of instability that has come to characterize, and still plagues, Arab Spring nations in their post-dictator transitions. Building on an already growing dissent against the Islamist Nahda party, the opposition immediately took to the streets following Belaid's death. Three days of persistent outrage by hordes of Belaid supporters forced Prime Minister Jebali to the negotiating table. He proposed handing over key ministries, such as justice and foreign affairs, to independents in an attempt to form a more inclusive government and avoid further political instability and pledged to step down if his efforts were not successful. But despite gaining broad support from the general public and the opposition, Jebali also succeeded in alienating himself from his party's most-ardent supporters. Just 13 days after the Belaid assassination, Jebali resigned as prime minister. On February 22, ruling party leaders elected serving interior minister Ali Laarayedh to replace Jebali. Laarayedh had been a founding member of Nahda and its spokesman from 1981 until 1990 when he was imprisoned by the Ben Ali regime. A party loyalist and hardliner, the election of Laarayedh signaled the Islamist-led party had no intentions of relinquishing any substantial power. Few Tunisians had probably heard of Basma Khalfaoui before her husband's death, but in the last two months she has attained rock star status in her country. Leftist supporters clearly lacking the charismatic charm and leadership that died with Chokri, rallied behind Basma who was adored for her strength and determination immediately following her loss. It wasn't long before the widow would become the new face of Tunisia's opposition. Turn on the television or open a newspaper in Tunisia and chances are Basma's picture will be there. "The number of people who attended the funeral and the spotlight I am put under has increased the amount of responsibility I am feeling. The whole thing has changed the destiny I have chosen, and yet I feel I am in the middle of the way," Basma says as she clutches tissues with one hand and constantly fiddles with a charm on her necklace bearing the image of her late husband with the other. Being a political celebrity was not part of Basma's plan. She had long ago left her activist life behind to raise her family. Like her husband, Basma was a leader in Tunisia's student movement in the General Union of the Students of Tunisia, a group of leftist and nationalist students concerned with the rising Islamist presence on campus. Following her time at university, she went on to join the Tunisian Association of Democratic Women, a prominent part of the Ben Ali opposition. "The negativity here is that I am a person who dislikes spotlights. My concern is my daughters, but now I feel the amount of responsibility towards the people of Tunisia. I don't want to collapse, for the sake of Tunisia. I feel proud for spreading courage in the atmosphere. Nahda party wants to spread fear and I want to stop that feeling," Basma says. As she spoke, a local Tunisian TV station was still breaking down its equipment which cluttered her modest apartment. Soon, another would arrive for yet another interview where she would, once again, relive the morning that changed her life. "Undoubtedly, his death is a loss to me and to our two daughters. To me, he was a husband, friend, colleague in the same party and profession." Later that week, Basma and thousands of supporters donning Chokri Belaid masks and carrying posters bearing Chokri's trademark mustache and mole, an image which has come to represent the revival of revolutionary fervor in Tunisia, gathered at her husband's graveside. Chokri's father and members of the Popular Front addressed the crowd flooding the Tunis cemetery over a loudspeaker between chants of "who killed Chokri?" Rally leaders then marched to Mohammad Bouazizi Square, named in honor of the street vendor who lit himself on fire which triggered Tunisia's revolution. The square was soon filled from curb to curb with activists. Barbed wire lined the streets as hundreds of Tunisian police, equipped with batons and riot gear, looked on suspiciously. That afternoon, the eager crowd lining Habib Bourguiba Avenue, the birthplace of the Arab Spring, parted as a large truck crept past, draping behind it a giant, cascading Tunisian flag. Coming to a stop in the center of Bouazizi Square, Basma emerged from behind the flag to address to thousands of supporters and well-wishers. The day ended without incident, a stark contrast from the funeral procession for Belaid that just a few weeks earlier had ended in violent clashes between supporters of the leftist martyr and those of the ruling Nahda party. Though the opposition was able to display its newfound strength without backlash, it was just another day without justice for Basma. Despite her obvious fatigue, she refuses to rest until those that are responsible for her husband's death are brought to justice. But buried beneath the sadness and anger, Basma still clings to hope. "I still feel optimistic as he was before he died. He once said, "if they assassinate me, a flower will grow." Now, thousands of flowers have grown in Tunisia."
A Libyan woman who stormed into a Tripoli hotel Saturday, telling foreign reporters that she had been raped by government troops, has been released, and her case is being investigated, government spokesman Moussa Ibrahim said Sunday. The matter is "a criminal case against four individuals" who have an attorney, he said. Among those accused by Eman al-Obeidy is the son of a high-ranking official, he said. The general attorney is looking into the case. The woman "hasn't committed, you know, any particular major offense," Ibrahim said. "She just entered a place she wasn't supposed to enter." He said al-Obeidy and her family have been asked if they want to be interviewed by "one or two, preferably female, reporters to verify that she's fine, she's healthy, she's free with her family." But Ibrahim refused to take further questions on the issue Sunday, noting that Libyan society is "very conservative." CNN's Nic Robertson, who has been on the ground in Tripoli since February 27, cautioned against taking Ibrahim's statements as fact, noting that "oftentimes what he says doesn't match reality." "We've been told by the government that she's with her family, but when we asked, 'Could we go and see them?' the government official said that would be up to the family," Robertson said, adding that journalists have indeed been in touch with the family, who have said they would grant permission to see al-Obeidy. However, international journalists, including CNN's staff, are not allowed to move freely in the Libyan capital and are escorted out of the hotel only on organized outings by government minders. Saturday's incident was the first time a Libyan opposed to Gadhafi attempted to independently approach the journalists in Tripoli. Robertson also tried to ask Ibrahim about statements the spokesman made referring to al-Obeidy as a prostitute, but he declined to answer the question while saying, "I'm not withdrawing from what I said." "We need to protect her privacy, her daughter's rights when she grows up," Ibrahim said. "We need to make this as criminal case, as legal a case as possible without talking about people's history, their files, their previous crimes or their lifestyle." Wedad Omar, the woman's cousin, told CNN that the 30-year-old al-Obeidy is single and does not have a daughter. Al-Obeidy burst into the hotel Saturday as international journalists were having breakfast. Her face was bruised, as were her legs. She showed the journalists blood on her right inner thigh. Speaking in English, she said she was from the rebel stronghold of Benghazi and had been held against her will for two days and raped by 15 men. "Look at what Gadhafi's brigades did to me," she said. "My honor was violated by them." She displayed what appeared to be visible rope burns on her wrists and ankles. CNN could not independently verify al-Obeidy's story, but her injuries appeared consistent with what she said. Government officials moved to stifle her, but she persisted. Security forces moved to subdue her, and even a member of the hotel's kitchen staff drew a knife. "Traitor!" he shouted at her. Another staffer attempted to throw a dark tablecloth over her head. One government official, who was there to facilitate access for journalists, pulled a pistol from his belt. Others scuffled with the journalists and wrestled them to the ground in an attempt to take away their equipment. Some journalists were beaten and kicked. CNN's camera was confiscated and deliberately smashed beyond repair. Security men said al-Obeidy was "mentally ill" and was being taken to a "hospital" as they dragged her to a waiting white car. She insisted she was being taken to jail, saying, "If you don't see me tomorrow, then that's it." Officials later said the woman was sane and would bring criminal charges against her attackers. CNN's Nic Robertson, Reza Sayah and Khalil Abdallah contributed to this report .
He talked a good game of acting on his own if necessary, calling for 2014 to be a "year of action, but President Barack Obama's State of the Union address showed he knows that true progress depends on cooperation with a divided and recalcitrant Congress. "Sometimes we stumble; we make mistakes; we get frustrated or discouraged," he said near the end of the more than hour-long speech, seeming to describe his bad 2013 that lowered his approval ratings. "But for more than 200 years, we have put those things aside and placed our collective shoulder to the wheel of progress." It was vintage Obama, blending hopeful calls for a unified approach with declarations of presidential independence through executive orders. There were the now familiar calls to recalibrate the tax code, spend more to rebuild roads and bridges, bolster education and avoid war if at all possible. He brought many to tears with a tribute to Sgt. First Class Cory Remsburg, a disabled war veteran who sat next to first lady Michelle Obama and waved with wounded limbs to a prolonged standing ovation. Even Republicans relentlessly critical of the President conceded his oratorical skill. "A speech by Barack Obama is a lot like sex," said GOP strategist and CNN contributor Alex Castellanos. "The worst there ever was is still excellent." According to a snap CNN/ORC International poll, 44% of respondents had a "very positive" response to Obama's speech, while 32% described a "somewhat positive" response and 22% didn't like it at all. Last year, 53% of respondents in a similar poll rated their response to the 2013 address as very positive. The underlying theme of Obama's fifth State of the Union address was his call on Tuesday for the government to work on behalf of all Americans in 2014, and his pledge to do so even if Congress refused to join him in an election year. "Let's make this a year of action," Obama said. "That's what most Americans want -- for all of us in this chamber to focus on their lives, their hopes, their aspirations." It's an optimistic goal for a President with a 43% approval rating entering his sixth year in office and facing a determined opposition in the Republican-led House of Representatives with congressional elections looming in November. Search the transcript of Obama's speech . "What I offer tonight is a set of concrete, practical proposals to speed up growth, strengthen the middle class, and build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class," Obama said. "Some require congressional action, and I'm eager to work with all of you. But America does not stand still, and neither will I." On issue after issue, he invited Congress to work with him but said he also would go it alone. Obama called for more government support to rebuild the nation's infrastructure, but also said that "I will act on my own to slash bureaucracy and streamline the permitting process for key projects, so we can get more construction workers on the job as fast as possible." The President also promised an executive order to raise the minimum wage for some government contract workers. While the action is relatively narrow and affects less than half a million people, Obama urged Congress to follow suit for all low-wage workers in America. Earlier Tuesday, House Speaker John Boehner chafed at such unilateral action, telling reporters that Republicans are "just not going to sit here and let the President trample all over us." In the official Republican response, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington complained that Obama's policies "are making people's lives harder." "We hope the President will join us in a year of real action -- by empowering people -- not by making their lives harder with unprecedented spending, higher taxes, and fewer jobs," she said. One area of possible progress is immigration reform. Obama got a long ovation when he urged Republicans in the House to join Democrats in passing a Senate plan that got bipartisan support. McMorris Rodgers also brought up the issue backed by some Republicans as a way to bolster their weak support among Hispanic Americans, the nation's largest minority demographic. "We're working on a step-by-step solution to immigration reform by first securing our borders and making sure America will always attract the best, brightest, and hardest working from around the world," she said in describing the more limited GOP approach to the comprehensive Senate measure that includes a path to legal status for immigrants living illegally in the country. On another major reform issue, Obama chided Republicans for trying to undermine his signature health care law that passed in 2010 without GOP support. He cited the millions of people helped by the reforms that ended denial of coverage for pre-existing conditions among its benefits. "The American people aren't interested in refighting old battles," Obama said. "Let's not have another 40-something votes to repeal a law that's already helping millions of Americans. ...The first 40 were plenty. ... We all owe it to the American people to say what we're for, not just what we're against." In her response, though, McMorris Rodgers continued the GOP attack line on the health care reforms as big government run amok and causing harm to people by raising costs and limiting their personal choices of doctors and medical treatment. This year's State of the Union is a defining test for Obama . The CNN/ORC poll indicated 59% of respondents thought Obama's policies as presented in the speech would help the economy, a lower figure than in recent years. Obama said he will order the U.S. Treasury to create a new federal retirement savings account called MyRA, a savings bond that would guarantee "a decent return with no risk of losing what you put in." It will be available to those whose jobs don't offer traditional retirement savings programs, he said. Additionally, Obama called for: . -- Eliminating $4 billion in tax subsidies for the fossil fuel industries "that don't need it" and instead "invest more in fuels of the future." -- Equal pay for women, noting they make 77 cents for each dollar a man earns, which he called "wrong" and "an embarrassment" to prompt loud and long applause. -- Setting new fuel standards for American trucks to help reduce U.S. oil imports "and what we pay at the pump." -- Reworking the corporate tax code. He urged Congress to work with him to close "wasteful, complicated loopholes that punish businesses investing here" and instead "lower tax rates for businesses that create jobs right here at home." -- Congress to lift restrictions on transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay so the prison cna be closed in 2014. Obama also reiterated that he will veto any new sanctions bill from Congress that would derail talks on preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, adding that "for the sake of our national security, we must give diplomacy a chance to succeed." Brazile: Obama's message: A dysfunctional Congress, but we'll get it done anyway . Even as he cited a growing economy and increasing corporate profits, Obama said average wages have been flat. Along with his order raising the minimum wage for workers on federal contracts, Obama asked Congress to get on board with a Democratic proposal to raise the federal minimum to $10.10 per hour. Republicans largely oppose any federal increase, saying it will place a burden on employers. "This is definitely the President's agenda and has been for some time now," said CNN Chief Political Correspondent Candy Crowley, who added it was hard to see how Republicans would respond any differently than before and therefore, it was hard to see big things happening in 2014. John Edwards says Dems should do more on poverty .
The federal judge presiding over the case of reputed former Boston mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger has been removed by the First Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston, after the defense raised concerns about his ability to be impartial. The judge, Richard Stearns, was as a prosecutor in the criminal division of the U.S. Attorney's Office in Boston when Bulger is alleged to have reigned over organized crime in the city, the First Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston noted. "Despite our respect for Judge Stearns and our belief in his sincerity, we are nonetheless bound to conclude that it is clear that a reasonable person might question the judge's ability to preserve impartiality through the course of this prosecution," the appeals court ruled. Bulger, the alleged former head of Boston's notorious Winter Hill gang, faces 19 murder charges, as well as charges including extortion, money laundering and narcotics distribution. The defense had initially moved to dismiss the case, saying Bulger was granted immunity by federal agents working to infiltrate Irish and Italian mobs in Boston three decades ago. But Stearns ruled this month that Bulger did not have immunity to commit murder or other crimes after his purported deal with the FBI. A new judge will be assigned to the case, the appeals court ruling said. Bulger made headlines when he was arrested in June 2011 in Santa Monica, California, after being on the run for 16 years. Before his sudden departure from Boston, he cooperated as an informant with disgraced ex-FBI agent John Connolly Jr., who is serving a 50-year sentence for second-degree murder and racketeering. According to an indictment against Connolly filed in 2000, Bulger became his confidential informant in the fall of 1975. CNN's Jason Kessler and Melissa Gray contributed to this report.
Federal agents have determined New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer used a high-priced call-girl ring at least eight times in recent months, and agents had him under surveillance twice this year, sources familiar with the investigation said Wednesday. Sources say New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer used a call-girl service eight times in recent months. Spitzer announced his resignation Wednesday, two days after reports of his connection to the Emperors Club VIP became public. He has not been charged with a crime. He told reporters Wednesday, "I cannot allow my private failings to disrupt the people's work." The resignation will take effect Monday.  Watch Spitzer say he will resign » . The sources said the investigation began when New York's North Fork Bank notified the Treasury Department about suspicious transfers of money from Spitzer's bank accounts. That investigation led agents to the alleged organizers of the prostitution ring, four of whom were charged in a criminal complaint last week, the sources said. A grand jury in New York is likely to hear evidence in the case soon, said Kathleen Mullin, an attorney who said she represents one of the ring's employees. Mullin would not identify her client, but said she was not the woman identified only as "Kristen" linked to Spitzer in court papers. She said her client and other women who worked for the Emperors Club have been asked to testify before the grand jury. Asked if her client had any encounters with Spitzer, Mullin said, "We have no information regarding the governor." Wiretaps on suspected members of the ring, authorized in January, yielded more than 5,000 telephone calls and text messages and another 6,000-plus e-mails, according to court papers. In those intercepts, the organizers told clients how to arrange and pay for their trysts, a federal agent's affidavit states. The affidavit identified clients by number, with Spitzer designated "Client 9," a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN this week. Sources familiar with the investigation said federal authorities Wednesday were trying to clamp down on leaks of the investigation's details.  See a timeline of the investigation » . The affidavit states "Client 9" paid $4,300 for 2½ hours with a call girl he arranged to meet at Washington's Mayflower Hotel, with some of that a deposit on a future session. Court papers state he also paid for train tickets, cab fare, mini-bar and room service charges for Kristen -- a 5-foot-5, 105-pound brunette he arranged to meet the night of February 13. Kristen is a 22-year-old would-be singer from New Jersey, The New York Times reported Wednesday. The newspaper said Ashley Youmans -- now known as Ashley Alexandra Dupre -- was identified in court documents as Kristen. Dupre has not been charged with a crime. She made a brief appearance Monday in U.S. Magistrate Court as a witness against four people charged with operating the Emperor's Club, the Times said. In an entry on her MySpace page, Dupre says she left "a broken family" and "abuse" in 2004, eventually settling in Manhattan "to pursue my music career." "I am all about my music, and my music is all about me," she writes on her MySpace page. "It flows from what I've been through, what I've seen and how I feel." Dupre's mother, Carolyn Capalbo, told the Times she and her daughter were close, adding that "she obviously got involved in something much larger than her." Spitzer, whose squeaky-clean image as a corporate corruption-buster made him a rising Democratic star, testified to the House Financial Services Committee the next day about the effect of the mortgage meltdown. He took a state plane from Buffalo, New York, to Washington and back to New York, his office confirmed Tuesday. Sources told CNN that FBI agents had Spitzer under surveillance at the Mayflower that night -- and on an earlier occasion, on January 26, when no prostitute showed up. His resignation is unlikely to affect decisions about whether he will face prosecution, the sources said. His attorneys were negotiating Wednesday with the U.S. attorney's office in New York in an effort to avoid criminal charges, a source told CNN. But in a statement issued after the governor's resignation, U.S. Attorney Michael Garcia said no agreement had been reached between his office and the governor "relating to his resignation or any other matter." The resignation could be a factor in the U.S. presidential race. Spitzer was a superdelegate, one of nearly 800 party leaders and officials who cast their votes at the Democratic National Convention. They are free to vote for any candidate they wish. Spitzer was a political ally of New York Sen. Hillary Clinton, who is currently in a tight race with Illinois Sen. Barack Obama to win the Democratic nomination. A candidate must get 2,024 delegates to clinch the Democratic nomination. With the race so close, superdelegates could play a larger role in determining the Democratic presidential candidate than in past elections. According to two sources who spoke Tuesday with CNN, Spitzer hit the federal radar when a bank reported to the Internal Revenue Service that a significant amount of money had been suspiciously transferred from one account to another. Late last year, upon investigating the movement of money that the bank initially reported, the IRS found that the accounts were connected to Spitzer, the sources said. The IRS contacted the FBI, which joined the case to investigate the possibility of government corruption. Federal law requires a banking institution to file a suspicious activity report when the institution suspects a transaction is linked to a federal crime. More specifically, banks are required to report to the IRS any transactions totaling $5,000 or more if the transactions "involve potential money laundering or a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act." The act requires businesses to keep documents that are useful for identifying and investigating money laundering. After receiving the IRS report last year, the FBI Corruption Squad linked the account transfers to a prostitution ring, according to sources. The FBI criminal division joined the probe to look into the prostitution ring, while the federal corruption team continued its investigation into Spitzer. Legal experts not involved in the case have said Spitzer could face some type of money-laundering charge, such as structuring a financial transaction to evade federal bank reporting requirements by breaking up a large transaction into smaller ones. Sources tell CNN that prosecutors have considered pursuing a structuring charge, but have run into some difficulty. And Richard Smith, a former Justice Department official, said structuring charges are "fairly difficult to prove." "You are going to have to prove that he withdrew sums of money with the intent to evade the reporting requirements, to conceal the fact that he is withdrawing the money," said Smith, the former deputy chief of the Justice Department's fraud section. "Because if the money was withdrawn, it appears if his lawyers are correct, in a manner that he didn't conceal anything, it begs the question whether or not they can prove the reckless intent that he withdrew this money in small sums to avoid the reporting requirement." Spitzer also could face charges related to the Mann Act, which makes it a federal offense to transport someone across state lines for the purpose of prostitution. But sources tell CNN that the government is less interested in pursuing charges for prostitution than on following the money. E-mail to a friend . CNN's Kevin Bohn contributed to this report.
From buying expensive caskets and tailoring new clothes to slaughtering animals and organizing a massive feast, little expense is spared in South Africa's elaborate funeral celebrations. Here, as in other communities across Africa, the financial and social resources invested in funerals are matched by no other rite of passage. "In the west, marriages are often the biggest life-cycle events. In Africa, it's funerals by far," said professor Michael Jindra, co-editor of "Funerals in Africa: Explorations of a Social Phenomenon." Jindra explains that such large events, designed to pay respect to the dead and honor one's roots, also provide a kind of "social glue" for communities in many African societies: They are at the heart of social and cultural life, with status concerns, succession issues and family bonds also at stake. Yet, honoring those who've passed away can also exact a huge financial toll on the already emotionally vulnerable relatives. In South Africa, bereaved families often have to spend significant amounts to host lavish funerals and burial ceremonies. They are expected to host and feed extended relatives who visit from all over the country and can stay for weeks. Other costs include slaughtering a cow or a goat to honor the dead, renting hearse tents and arranging transportation to the burial ground for mourners. "In many areas, a lot of people spend a lot of money on funerals. Sometimes, it's out of choice for reasons of status, but other times, it's simply out of the social pressure, and it is certainly putting burdens on people when they don't have a lot of money," said Jindra. A 2009 report by economists Anne Case and Alicia Menendez found that the average price tag for an "honorable" funeral in South Africa between 2003 and 2005 was about 3,400 rand ($415), which is equivalent to 40% of the average annual household expenditure. The report said that funeral expenses leave surviving family members vulnerable to future hardship, with spending on items such as food and clothes significantly lower following the funeral. Children in households that experienced a death are also less likely to be enrolled in school, while adults are much more likely to report problems such as symptoms of depression and periods of anxiety. "The costs of food are enormous. The coffins are extremely expensive," said Case. "A family might spend as much money on a coffin as they will spend on their children's school fees for all of the period that their children are at school." In Ghana, where funerals are often boisterous events of great size and importance, families tend to channel vast amount of resources and time in the memorials. One example is ordering custom-built coffins in just about any design shape that either are symbolic or reflect the deceased's profession. Ghana's incredible coffins: Fish, bananas and buses . In Kenya, a 2004 study published in the Journal of Human Development found that 63% of households that declined into poverty in rural areas cited heavy funeral costs as a reason. In Cameroon, Jindra says, people at times would opt for saving money for a funeral instead of contributing for medical costs while a person is still alive. "People know that these funerals can be so expensive that they'll actually save money for that and spend it on that rather than health expenses that could actually keep the person alive longer," he said. A financial instrument that has evolved in South Africa to help people prepare for funerals are savings clubs or accounts that pay out only upon death. Individuals usually belong to a burial society or pay weekly or monthly installments for insurance that guarantees that some expenses incurred for their funerals will be paid for by the insurer. However, most times, the funds from these plans are not enough, forcing families to turn elsewhere for assistance. "The households are really left scrambling," said Daryl Collins, co-author of "Portfolios of the Poor: How the World's Poor Live on $2 a Day" and director at Bankable Frontier Associates. "The lion's share is paid for by the relatives, but what's hidden underneath that is that, oftentimes, what comes from the relatives is not quite enough, so there's quite a bit of borrowing from either friends or money lenders," she added. As a result, nearly a quarter of households have no choice but to borrow money, according to Case and Menendez's study, with money lenders charging exorbitant monthly interest rates of 30% or more. Reuben Naran, who built the Kings and Queens funeral parlor in Johannesburg to help fellow Zimbabweans bury their dead back home, says that funerals are creating a big financial burden for poor households. "It costs you, you go and borrow money, you have to pay back to repay the money after the funeral, so it means your life will be affected most probably for the whole year for a single death," said Naran. Inside his parlor, a relative of a deceased man agrees: "It is expensive because we have to donate. Each and every member of the family has to donate so that we can manage to take him home."
For workers of Bangladesh, the worst kind of tragedy imaginable struck last week when the Rana Plaza garment factory building -- just outside my home city of Dhaka -- collapsed, killing more than 500 workers. Despite the many warnings of dangerous cracks in the walls reported to supervisors, police and the media earlier in the week, thousands were still sent to work on Wednesday to proceed with business as usual. There's no question that this building collapse is tragic, but for garment workers, it's not surprising. I began working in Bangladesh's garment industry at the age of 12, making just $3 a month. I went to work because my father had a stroke and the family needed money to cover basic living expenses. I worked 23 days in a row, sleeping on the shop floor, taking showers in the factory restroom, drinking unsafe water and being slapped by the supervisor. Bangladesh vs. the U.S.: How much does it cost to make a denim shirt? By the time I was a young woman working at a factory that made clothing for a big U.S. retailer, I knew the time had come for change. The factory owed my coworkers and me overtime wages, but it wanted to pay us only half of what we had earned, making it even harder for us to support our families. So I helped lead a strike to hold our manager accountable. I was fired and blacklisted, but my work was far from over. I later learned labor law, English and computer skills so that I could help win justice for garment workers. Today I lead a worker education and advocacy nonprofit that counts tens of thousands of garment workers as members. Opinion: Who really pays for our cheap clothes? The sad reality is that tragedies like this have become business as usual, advanced by some of the most highly profitable American and international corporations in the world. Last November, 112 workers lost their lives when the Tazreen Fashions factory, which produced garments sold by Wal-mart, Sears and other retailers, caught fire. Much like New York's infamous Triangle Shirtwaist factory fire more than 100 years ago, the workers at Tazreen were trapped inside, with many jumping from upper story windows to try to save themselves. The death toll at Bangladeshi factories stands at nearly 1,000 since 2006, based on estimates by the Bangladeshi government and an advocacy organization. In the case of these two recent tragedies, there is plenty of blame to go around -- from the Bangladeshi government for looking the other way at safety violations, to the incredibly dangerous circumstances workers face when they try to unionize, to the pressure factory owners and managers are under to turn out high product volume at low prices no matter what. It is the responsibility of the government of Bangladesh to make a sustained, concerted effort to rectify the dire situation. Strict, well-enforced factory codes and clear support for workers' rights are paramount to protecting Bangladesh's garment workforce. But more tragedies can be prevented only if the multinational corporations and retailers whose goods are produced at these factories are willing to stand up and do what is right. A coalition of labor and non-governmental organizations in Bangladesh, Europe and the United States has developed a protocol for an innovative two-year inspection and renovation program to finally make these factories safe -- the Bangladesh Fire and Building Safety Agreement. In addition to facilitating government-supported employer-labor relations and stringent oversight of factory safety management, this protocol focuses on the responsibility of brand owners and retailers to support safety standards. If Wal-mart and its fellow retailers that count on Bangladeshi labor demand change, we can be sure it will happen. As the protocol states, these corporations must verify that the factories they use comply with applicable safety standards. They must ensure that their pricing of garments makes it feasible for the factories to stick to standards. No longer should a Bangladeshi factory manager feel forced to pressure his employees to work in a deadly environment to meet a corporation's bottom line. As for the tragedies that have already taken place, these brands should contribute to worker compensation funds for victims and victims' families, including those in the fire at Tazreen. To date, Wal-mart and Sears have refused to contribute. Both companies maintain that subcontractors had used the factory without their authorization, so they are not responsible. I single out Walmart because its past actions have been painfully inadequate. Walmart has refused to sign onto the protocol designed to enhance fire safety and improve factory structures, saying it is putting its own standards in place, which are perfectly adequate. Yet those are Band-Aid measures that are woefully insufficient. Last fall, Wal-mart refused to admit its connection to the Tazreen factory until my colleagues and I went there the day after the fire and photographed products with Wal-mart's labels in the wreckage. We must no longer tolerate this willful ignorance on the part of multinational corporations about where their goods are produced. It's high time that companies like Wal-mart, The Gap, and others step up and demand the safety of Bangladesh's garment workers. Too many Bangladeshi workers live and work in fear for their lives each day. The fire safety protocol is a critical first step to making real change, and I urge Wal-mart to become a leader in the fight to save Bangladeshi lives. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Kalpona Akter.
Lionel Messi has been crowned world footballer of the year for a third successive time after claiming FIFA's Ballon d'Or award at a ceremony in Zurich. The Argentina forward beat Barcelona teammate Xavi and Real Madrid's Cristiano Ronaldo to the prestigious title. Messi, 24, becomes only the fourth player in history to claim three awards, matching the feat of current UEFA president Michel Platini and Dutch duo Johan Cruyff and Marco van Basten. "It's a great personal pleasure for me," Messi said, after receiving his award. Who are football's top January transfer targets? "It's the third time I've won it. It's just an amazing honor. I want to thank everyone that's been involved with me -- my team-mates, trainers, physios, the coach (Pep Guardiola) and everyone at Barcelona. "I'd also like to thank the Argentina national team as well." Messi enjoyed another glittering year with Barcelona, winning the Spanish league title, the European Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup. Rooney defiant as Man City appeal Kompany red card . Xavi, who also missed out on the Ballon d'Or behind Messi last year, said his teammate could be one of the best footballers the game has ever seen. He told the ceremony: "He's still young, only 24, and I think he's going to break all the records that exist in this sport. He's going to be one of the best footballers in the history of the sport.'' Messi's club manager Pep Guardiola was crowned manager of the year for masterminding victories in four separate competitions, including the FIFA Club World Club which confirmed Barcelona as the best team on the planet. He said: "I want to dedicate this award to the thousands of people who, through more than a hundred years, have worked for FC Barcelona and helped develop one of the best clubs in the world. "It's a privilege and an honor for me to be a part of this excellent, amazing club." Brazilian striker Neymar, who plays in his home country for Santos, was named winner of the FIFA Puskas Award, named after legendary Hungary striker Ferenc Puskas, for the goal of the year. Japan's Homare Sawa was crowned FIFA Women's World Player of the Year after she captained her country to the Women's World Cup title in Germany, while her manager Norio Sasaki was named coach of the year for women's football. FIFA also selected their team of the year: Iker Casillas (Real Madrid), Dani Alves (Barcelona), Gerard PiquÃ© (Barcelona), Sergio Ramos (Real Madrid), Nemanja Vidic (Manchester Utd), AndrÃ©s Iniesta (Barcelona), Xabi Alonso (Real Madrid), Xavi (Barcelona), Lionel Messi (Barcelona), Cristiano Ronaldo (Real Madrid), Wayne Rooney (Manchester Utd).
Taliban fighters from Pakistan say they have united with al Qaeda forces in Syria to fight the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The commander of the Pakistan Taliban, Abdul Rashid Abbasi, has told CNN that the first batch of fighters has arrived in Syria and established a command and control center to launch operational activities alongside Syrian rebel fighters. Abbasi, a close associate of Pakistan Taliban head Hakeemullah Mehsud, told CNN that 120 fighters are already in Syria. The Taliban commander went on to say that another batch of fighters made up of 150 men will arrive in Syria this week. "We shall be sending more volunteers, but cannot give exact numbers at this moment, but we will provide whatever support is needed by our Syrian brothers," Abbasi told CNN. CNN is unable to independently confirm that members of the Pakistan Taliban are inside Syria. CNN journalists have previously been inside Syria and seen foreign fighters participate in the country's civil war, which sprang from unrest sparked in the spring of 2011. Abbasi said the fighters were sent after the Pakistan Taliban received a request from the al Qaeda operational commander in Syria, Abu Omar Baghdadi. Pakistan Taliban fighters will be under the command and control structure of al Qaeda in Syria, as it is leading the operation, he said. The Pakistan Taliban said it has also asked its local chapters in the Mohmand, Bajaur, Khyber, Orakzai and Waziristan agencies to recruit fresh fighters who are willing to go on their mission in Syria. The Pakistan Taliban says many young men are registering to go on their first foreign mission. But the Pakistan Taliban said it will remain based in Pakistan. "We have lots of fighters here and our central command will be operating from here, so there is no reason to stop operations in Pakistan," Abbasi said. "They will go on as usual." Israel trains for border clash with Syria . Zahir Shah Sherazi reported for CNN from Peshawar, and CNN's Saima Mohsin reported from Islamabad.
Will they really finally go free? The Nigerian government says that more than 200 girls abducted by Boko Haram in April are to be released as early as Monday, after it signed a ceasefire agreement with the Islamists. People around the world are hoping the girls will be set free, but there are skeptics -- and bad signs coming from Boko Haram. After the girls were kidnapped from the village of Chibok, the hashtag mantra #BringBackOurGirls kicked off an avalanches of posts. Celebrities like First Lady Michelle Obama, teen Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai, and actor Sean Penn joined in. Even Pope Francis took to Twitter to call for their release. Now, after the government made the announcement of their possible release, the hashtag has reawakened with messages of hope and anticipation. "I am desperate for their return. I must sing a new song of joy," one poster wrote. Another wrote, "I hope and pray this 189th day of the abduction of #OurGirls will be the last day we'll say #BringBackOurGirls. I fervently pray so!" He never stopped fighting for Nigeria's missing girls . Islamists remain silent . But Boko Haram remains silent on the deal the government says it signed with the Islamists in neighboring Chad last week. Instead, the group may be letting its weapons do the talking, continuing five years of war. Over the weekend, gunmen believed to be Boko Haram fighters attacked two villages and a town, killing at least eight and kidnapping others. David Cook, who studies jihad, has doubts about the deal going through. "It remains to be seen whether this truce will actually materialize, whether it is merely an election ploy for Nigeria's embattled president, Goodluck Jonathan, and most crucially whether it will bring about the release of numerous captives taken by Boko Haram during the past year," he wrote in an analysis for CNN. President needs a success . The Islamists have employed particularly bloody tactics this year, killing thousands. Boko Haram has gone after Christians, foreigners and educated people, driving them out of the country's northeast. And they have continued kidnapping. They have often sidelined Nigeria's army. And government soldiers have at times mutinied, complaining of lacking support from the government. Jonathan needs some good news going into February's polls. Analyst Richard Joseph from the Brookings Institution shares Cook's doubts. "This is a case when we will actually need to see the girls emerging from their six-month confinement before we can truly believe," he wrote after the government's announcement. He fears that after so much war, the group may be disjointed and any ceasefire deals made with some members may not be heeded by others. And like ISIS, Boko Haram has ambitions for a caliphate or religious state, which would mean it has long-term ambitions to keep fighting, Cook said. But he believes that a deal could still be in Boko Haram's interest. They could use it to rest and regroup. The kidnapping lookback . On April 14, Boko Haram militants raided the village of Chibok and kidnapped an estimated 276 teenage girls from a boarding school. Officials there say some of the girls were able to escape. It is believed that the Islamist militants were able to hold on to more than 200 of them. Three weeks later, a man claiming to be a Boko Haram leader threatened to sell the girls into slavery. "Allah says I should sell. He commands me to sell. I will sell women. I sell women," he said. More than a month after their abduction, the White House announced it had sent 80 U.S. troops to Chad to help search for the kidnapped schoolgirls. In spite of many promises to find and free them, the girls have remained in the terrorists' hands.
It all seemed in place for Eugenie Bouchard in Saturday's Wimbledon final. She was the people's favorite, surged to semifinals at the Australian Open and French Open, and Britain's Princess Eugenie -- who the tennis player was named after -- looked on from the Royal Box. Ten years ago, Bouchard's idol, Maria Sharapova, won Wimbledon as the 13th seed. Bouchard, who shares the Russian's enormous appetite for titles and competitiveness, happened to be seeded 13th this fortnight. But Bouchard's coronation will have to wait, since none of the above mattered to Petra Kvitova. Canada, too, will have to wait for a maiden grand slam singles champion. Kvitova became the Queen of Wimbledon once again when the powerful, left-handed Czech crushed Bouchard 6-3 6-0 in a mere 55 minutes for a second crown at tennis' most prestigious tournament, claiming the $3 million first prize. It was the most lopsided Wimbledon women's final since Steffi Graf routed Monica Seles 6-2 6-1 in 1992, not what anyone expected given Bouchard's battling qualities -- and the fact she hadn't dropped a set before the final. "I thought Bouchard was going to win," Britain's 1977 Australian Open finalist John Lloyd, a longtime tennis analyst at Wimbledon, told CNN. "I was thinking that Bouchard, who is just an animal -- and I mean that in a form of flattery, sort of in your face, confident, poised -- would get enough balls back and rush Petra. "Petra was just seeing the ball like a football." Closing the roof for the trophy presentation with rain on the way took almost as long as the second set. No matter what happens in the months leading into Wimbledon, former world No. 2 Kvitova -- who will rise to fourth in the new rankings -- appears to instantly feel at home at the All England Club. Whereas she hasn't reached a grand slam quarterfinal outside Wimbledon since the 2012 French Open, she's progressed to at least the last eight at tennis' most famous postcode of SW19 five straight times. Her flat, booming ground strokes thrive on the grass, and the lower bounces are to her liking. With rallies generally shorter, she doesn't have to hit as many balls -- so can limit her unforced errors. Bouchard, at 20 the youngest female grand slam finalist in five years, simply didn't face anyone of Kvitova's caliber this tournament. Nerves weren't a factor, as they were for Sabine Lisicki in last year's final against Marion Bartoli. "She has weapons," Bouchard, who took home $1.5 million for her efforts, told reporters. "We know that when she's on, she's very tough to beat, especially on this surface." An aggressive player, even Bouchard took a backseat in that department to Kvitova, but that was little surprise since the latter always does the dictating. Kvitova's focus, crucially, never wavered. She finished with glittering statistics of 28 winners and only 12 unforced errors. Bouchard's figures weren't bad, though: Eight winners and four unforced errors. Kvitova won 82% of her first-serve points and broke six times. "There might have been some players who could have been able to keep her off balance a bit with a bigger serve, like a Serena (Williams), but I would have to say her display was one of the best I've ever seen from a woman at Wimbledon in terms of ball striking," said Lloyd. Not known for her scampering, Kvitova for good measure won the point of the final when she retrieved like Rafael Nadal and struck a slice-backhand passing-shot winner to hold for 3-1 in the first set. "Really for the first time I said, 'Oh, my God, this is good,'" Kvitova, who cried as she addressed the crowd, told reporters. "I can really run and put everything back. I was there. I was 100% ready for everything." Her running forehand cross-court pass deep in the second was almost as good, and Kvitova ended matters with a sizzling cross-court backhand winner prior to raising her arms and falling to the grass. On this form, it won't be the last time Kvitova celebrates on Centre Court. One of her tasks now is to land a grand slam title outside London. "I hope it's now going to be easier for me," Kvitova said. Once she broke for 2-1 in the first set, the 24-year-old was never threatened. Bouchard saved three break points to hold for 2-3 -- but it was her last hold. The second set took 23 minutes, with Bouchard claiming 10 points total. At least Bouchard -- who will become the highest-ranked Canadian woman in tennis history at No. 7 when the new list is released on Monday -- can say the fans were heavily behind her. "Even on court today I felt some special support from the crowd," she said. "It's humbling to receive all this support. It's special to hear that people want me to do well and believe in me." In Sunday's men's final, Roger Federer tries for an eighth Wimbledon title against top seed Novak Djokovic. But the duo will have a difficult job of matching Kvitova's impeccable outing. Read also: Djokovic and Federer reach men's final .
Nearly a week after the bloody weekend crackdown on Iranian protesters, the issue is still generating thousands of posts on Twitter, YouTube, and Facebook. CNN's Iran desk is analyzing dozens of Internet videos of the violent demonstrations on Dec. 23-24 in which at least seven protesters were killed. Hundreds of "tweets" are still being posted onto Twitter every hour. Each day, thousands of people are joining a Facebook page dedicated to supporting the anti-government protesters, called "100 Million Facebook Members for Iran." Here is a rundown of the latest social media trends that CNN has compiled: . Twitter: Most Shared Articles on Iran . • U.S. Iran standing in its own way with nuke plan . • Iran gives West one-month ultimatum to accept uranium swap . • Total wealth of Khamenei and family $36 billion . • Iranian opposition grows beneath surface . • Shah's son urges international protest over Iran . Most Popular Iran Hashtags on Twitter . #iran . #iranelections . #ashura . #hhrs . #news . #iranprotests . #sharia . #united4iran . #protests . #Tryant . #VivaLiberty . #Strike . #freedom . #protest . #Mousavi . #HumanRights . #Neda . Most popular Facebook accounts on Iran . • 100 Million Facebook Members for Iran . • Mir Hossein Moussavi personal page .
Maria Sharapova beat Li Na in three sets to defend her Italian Open title in Rome on Sunday in a bizarre match played in sometimes heavy rain and amid the distraction of football fans gathering nearby. Sharapova was 6-4 4-0 down but fought back to take the match into a deciding tiebreak -- after saving a match point at 6-5 in the third set. By the time the tiebreak came around, the rain was falling heavily, making conditions unplayable, and it even started to rain again when the players returned two hours later to complete the match. Sharapova eventually won it 4-6, 6-4, 7-6 (5) and the two players burst out laughing when they shook hands at the net. "It was a crazy match," Sharapova said. "Either one of us could have won it. There really is no loser." The men's final between Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal was postponed until Monday because of the weather -- prompting some fans to throw objects onto the court in disgust. Nearby, Napoli and Juventus fans were gathering for the Italian Cup final at the nearby Stadio Olimpico, and the final was punctuated by the sound of fireworks going off and police helicopters flying overhead. "The match was a joke, it was like playing a football match in the rain," said Li, who came close to her first title since winning the French Open almost a year ago. "Even when we were sent off court, you had to still concentrate for every second, it was tiring for both players. "You could not relax. It was tense. When we came back out, she was the tougher player. But I take some positives away. It's getting close to Roland Garros and I think I hit the ball well. I also moved her around the court well." Sharapova heads to Roland Garros with a second clay-court title of the year under her belt. Not traditionally a threat on the slow surface, the world No. 2 has only lost once on clay in 2012 -- to Serena Williams. "This is a great win for me going into Roland Garros," Sharapova said. "It will be nice to have a week off now, after playing three tournaments in the last four weeks. I'll have to time to recover, mentally and physically." Sharapova can complete a career Grand Slam if she wins in Paris.
Thousands of protesters marched along Jakarta's main thoroughfare to the presidential palace Wednesday, opposing government plans to increase subsidized fuel prices by 33%. According to police estimates, between 3,000 and 5,000 protestors participated in the largely peaceful march to reject the price hike, which is expected to take effect April 1. The fuel price hikes have triggered nationwide protests, mostly organized by student organizations and labor unions, the Jakarta Globe reported. In Makasser, capital of South Sulawesi and the largest city in east Indonesia, students clashed with anti-riot police and set a vehicle alight. More protests are expected in the days to come. Shubham Chaudhuri, a World Bank economist in Jakarta, says the government's plans will try to correct an imbalance in government spending. In 2011, the government spent 2.2% of GDP on fuel subsidies "and 1.5% of GDP on infrastructure and 1% of GDP on what we would call social assistance programs," Chaudhri said yesterday. Indonesia's parliament has yet to approve the proposal but the government says a rise in fuel prices is necessary on April 1. The plan was announced last week and comes after global crude oil prices have steadily risen on growing tensions with Iran, rising more than 7% this year. Workers also marched in a separate protest Wednesday to the Ministry of Health building to demand better health benefits.
The House of Representatives on Tuesday formally admonished Republican Rep. Joe Wilson for shouting "you lie" during President Obama's speech to a joint session of Congress last week. Rep. Joe Wilson, R-South Carolina, shouts "You lie!" during President Obama's speech Wednesday night. The House passed a resolution of disapproval on a 240-179 vote that was mostly along party lines, reflecting the Democratic majority in the chamber. Twelve Democrats voted "no," while seven Republicans voted for the measure. Five representatives, all Democrats, voted "present." According to the Office of the House Historian, it was the first time in its 220-year history that the House has disciplined a member for speaking out during a presidential speech in the chamber to a joint session of Congress. During debate on the resolution, Wilson called the measure a waste of time and failed to apologize to the chamber, as demanded by House Democrats. "When we are done here today, we will not have taken any further steps toward helping" the nation deal with urgent challenges, said Wilson, of South Carolina. "It is time that we move forward and get back to work for the American people."  Watch House members debate the resolution » . He and other Republicans noted that Wilson apologized to Obama immediately after the speech, and that the president accepted it. Asked after the vote if he apologized privately to House leaders such as Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Wilson told journalists it wasn't necessary. "In my view, by apologizing to the president, the most important person in the history of the world, that applied to everyone," Wilson said. However, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Maryland, said Wilson's refusal to apologize to the House for his disrespectful behavior to the chamber required admonishment. The issue, he said, "is whether we are able to proceed with a degree of civility and decorum" that Congress requires. The House resolution was the mildest form of discipline the chamber can exercise for misconduct on the House floor. "Whereas the conduct of the Representative from South Carolina was a breach of decorum and degraded the proceedings of the joint session, to the discredit of the House: Now, therefore, be it resolved that the House of Representatives disapproves of the behavior of the Representative from South Carolina, Mr. Wilson, during the joint session of Congress held on Sept. 9, 2009," said a text of the resolution posted earlier on Hoyer's legislative Web site. Before debate on the measure began, one Democrat said the disrespect shown Obama by Wilson never would have happened to a white president. "It only happened when this country elected a president of color," said Rep. Hank Johnson of Georgia. Another noted the heckling of the president in the House was unprecedented, and the chamber needed to enforce discipline in order to maintain civility.  Watch Johnson comment on why he supports the resolution » . "No president has been subjected to that type of treatment on the floor of the House of Representatives, and if we go down that road, then it's the law of the jungle, and I think that's just wrong," said Rep. Gerry Connolly of Virginia. However, House Minority Leader John Boehner of Ohio called the resolution "piling on." In the debate, Boehner and other Republicans acknowledged the mistake by Wilson while citing his military career and how his four children also served in the military. They noted that he already had apologized to Obama and accused Democrats of a partisan stunt intended to deflect attention from what they called increasingly unpopular health care legislation.  Watch Boehner talk about health care, support Wilson's apology » . "The American people want less politics and more jobs," said Rep. Mike Pence, R-Indiana. In closing the debate, Democratic Rep. James Clyburn of South Carolina, the House Majority whip, noted that all Americans, especially schoolchildren, learn about civics and government by observing the House. Clyburn, a former schoolteacher, said failing to enforce House rules against Wilson's outburst would send the wrong message. The House Democratic leadership agreed to move forward with the vote after meeting to discuss the issue Monday evening, according to two Democratic leadership aides. Kristie Greco, a spokeswoman for Clyburn, said the discussion at Monday's meeting was about "how this speaks to the breach of decorum alone, and not addressing the issue sets a precedent for bad behavior." "We're not the British Parliament for a reason," Greco added.  Watch combative politicians in other countries » . Wilson on Sunday described his loud retort to Obama's statement that illegal immigrants would not be covered under the Democrats' health care bill as "a town hall moment." But he made it clear he would not apologize on the House floor. "I called immediately, I did apologize, but I believe one apology is sufficient," he said. Last week, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called the episode "unfortunate" and told reporters at her weekly news conference, "It's time for us to talk about health care and not Mr. Wilson." But when Pelosi met with Democratic leaders later that day, her colleagues argued that unless Wilson apologized on his own, they would want a formal vote on a resolution of disapproval, according to several Democratic sources. On Tuesday, Pelosi refused to comment on the resolution to reporters outside the weekly Democratic caucus meeting, saying that journalists should be focusing on the health care reform issue. Other Democrats offered their thoughts. Johnson said Wilson's comment amounted to a "wink" of approval to right-wing extremists who have brought highly charged language and imagery -- such as posters depicting Obama with a Hitler mustache or as an African witch doctor -- to the health care debate. "He [Wilson] did not help the cause of diversity and tolerance with his remarks," Johnson said. "If I were a betting man, I would say that it instigated more racist sentiment feeling that it's OK -- you don't have to bury it now." Johnson added that failing to rebuke Wilson would bring increased racism in the public discussion on health care, saying: "You can bring it out and talk about it fully, and so I guess we will probably have folks putting on white hoods and white uniforms again riding through the countryside intimidating people." "That's the logical conclusion if this kind of attitude is not rebuked, and Congressman Wilson represents it," Johnson said. "He is the face of it, and that's why I support the resolution." To Rep. Jason Altmire of Pennsylvania, a member of the moderate Blue Dog Democratic coalition, the issue was simple: "He has not apologized to the House for the embarrassment he brought" to the chamber, Altmire said. Democratic Rep. Barbara Lee of California, a leading member of the Congressional Black Caucus, said Wilson's violation of House rules was "egregious enough that it warrants an apology on the floor." Without that, the resolution of disapproval is called for, she said. On the Republican side, Rep. Steve King of Iowa began circulating a letter among House Republicans last weekend urging Wilson not to apologize on the House floor. The letter stated, "We urge that you hold your ground against those who seek partisan advantage and reject all demands for additional redress. When the president of the United States accepts an apology, no observer has an additional claim." CNN's Deirdre Walsh and Lisa Desjardins contributed to this report.
A resolution passed in the most populous city in Vermont could lead to a ban on assault rifles and high-capacity magazines. Burlington's City Council members voted 10-3 in favor of the resolution. City Councilor Norm Blais, a Democrat, said he was moved to sponsor the proposal after hearing what he called President Barack Obama's pleas to have a discussion about weapons in our country after the deadly Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings in Newtown, Connecticut, in December. Next, the resolution has to be presented in public hearings, voted on by the public and be approved by the state legislature before it becomes city law. Giffords, Kelly launch battle against gun lobby . Blais said his city wasn't nearly as safe as people thought, saying that "if somebody was not a convicted felon and was walking through our thoroughfare and had an AK-47 slung over his shoulder, there's nothing we could do about that. Most people are surprised to hear that." But most people at Monday's city council meeting spoke out against the resolution, calling it too broad and unwarranted, according to CNN affiliate WPTZ. Burlington Police Chief Michael Schirling said most gun crime in the city involves handguns, not assault weapons, WPTZ reported. Vermont is one of the most lenient states when it comes to gun laws, allowing concealed or openly carried firearms without permits anywhere except school property and courthouses. CNN affiliate WCAX reported that meeting attendee Matt Storer encouraged the city council to not pass the amendment based on emotions because of recent events.  "I think it's a dangerous course to let emotions get into the driver's seat when writing legislation that could potentially infringe on constitutional rights." Blais told CNN he had intentionally drafted the proposal broadly so that he could encompass details from officials and those in the community who support gun rights to ensure a fairly written amendment. He said he was not looking to keep sportsmen from hunting and people from being able to defend themselves but rather wants to make sure what happened in Newtown did not happen in his city. New Congress, new push for gun laws .
The posts show how quickly life can change. "Everyones dressing up as Batman, im going dressed as Bruce Wayne... Albeit a short stubby unsexy Bruce Wayne #CouldntFindBatmanMaskInTime," wrote one Twitter user, identified online as Zach Eastman. "Going to see the final batman tonight! So EXCITED!!!" wrote another Twitter user, @DjaylaRene. And, in hindsight, most chillingly: "Of course we're seeing Dark Knight ... people should never argue with me." Gunman kills 12 in Colorado theater shooting . Those posts surfaced before the shootings early Friday morning at a late-night showing in Aurora, Colorado, of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises," in which 12 people were killed and dozens more were injured. All three people who were quoted above appear to have been in the theater complex when a heavily armed gunman opened fire on moviegoers, according to police. The third post appears to be from Jessica Ghawi, who was reported dead in the shooting. Ghawi was a former sports-news intern at a television station in San Antonio, according to that station, Fox 29. "It's true, my former intern Jessica Ghawi was a victim in the shootings last night. She used @JessicaRedfield as her twitter handle," wrote a Twitter user identified as Mike Taylor. In the hours after the shooting, her friend mourned her death in real time. "Devastated," wrote a sports radio host in Denver, identified online as Peter Burns. "Lost a very close friend in the shooting last night. @JessicaRedfield came to Denver to pursue sports career. I'm shaking." Aspiring sports reporter Ghawi feared dead in shooting . The horrifying posts highlight a shift in the way our society tells the story of a tragedy, and also how we react to it. Before Twitter, smartphones and YouTube, it would have been impossible for an event like Colorado's "Batman Massacre" to have played out for the global public in real time. The shooting is just the latest instance of social media being used to document a tragedy or a news event even as it is unfolding. A Pakistani man last year unwittingly live-tweeted the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. And the war in Syria is being documented in large part by citizens and members of the opposition movement who risk their lives to post YouTube videos and photos of the violence. NRA tweeter was 'unaware' of Colorado shooting, spokesman says . But the social media posts about the Colorado shooting are a haunting reminder of the visceral power of first-person accounts of tragedy. And also a sign that society these days deals with grieving after an event like this in a much more public and immediate way than in years past. Reports of the 1999 Columbine school shooting, for example, which happened only 17 miles from Aurora, spread in a much different way. Thirteen years ago, witnesses talked to TV crews rather than uploading their stories instantly to the Internet with mobile phones. Shooting turns movie into surreal horror: 'This is real' Some reports from the Aurora movie theater appeared to come out as the shooting occurred. "Now I'm thinking it was bullets coming through the wall from 9 causing smoke and fire cracker sounds. #aurorashooting #batman #shootng," a Twitter user identified as Jamie Marshall wrote. "Never seen so many cop cars in my life. Its a parade of lights," wrote Isaac Ramos. "Everything keeps replaying in my head. It was so unreal," @DjaylaRene wrote. "I am getting ready to cry. So scared. I need a hug. I almost got shot 9 times. I had a chance to be like 50," wrote another Twitter user, @Abenistar. He later added: "I seen a person bleeding out their mouth and gasping for their last breath. This ain't right. #Century16Shooting. Thunk the world is ending." Shaky YouTube videos show people screaming, crying and rushing out of the theater after the shooting, some of them with bloody wounds. Another video, apparently taken outside the building by a person who was in the theater next to the shooting, offers a glimpse into the mindset of a person who has just witnessed tragedy. The amateur videographer sounds to be at a loss for words. "Oh Jesus. July 20th, 2012. Aurora Century 16," he says, in a sort of real-time confessional about the event. "There has been a massive shooting here. A lot of people wounded, a lot of people dead. I can't really take pictures, just because I'd rather (be) helping people than wanting to take pictures of some pretty ghastly (expletive). There's some guy in a gas mask apparently -- teargassed theater 9. We were in theater 8. Just lit it up. It hit a lot of people, a lot of younger people. Oh. It's pretty -- it's pretty bad." Timeline of worst mass shootings in U.S. Officials also turned to the Internet in an effort to make sense of the events. The Red Cross is asking people who witnessed the shooting to tell loved ones that they were OK over social media sites like Facebook and Twitter. "People don't know how close you were, so help alleviate that anxiety," spokeswoman Patricia Billinger told USA Today. And other officials used the Internet to offer sympathy. "We certainly appreciate the nation's thoughts and prayers as our police department continues to investigate the terrible theater shooting tragedy that occurred today," the city of Aurora wrote on its Facebook page. "Our condolences go out to the victims and their family members." Are you there? Share your story with us on CNN iReport and post your tributes to the victims. CNN's Doug Gross and Dorrine Mendoza contributed to this report.
(CNN)When Les Moonves sits down at a restaurant in Hollywood, it's usually the waiter's lucky night. As the president and CEO of CBS Corp., which includes Showtime, Moonves runs a powerful television network in a town where nearly every waiter also wants to be an actor. But when he walked into Craig's in West Hollywood last year, those roles were reversed. This time, Moonves' waiter, Gabriel Salvador, was the one serving up a mouthwatering opportunity that had nothing to do with the shrimp diavolo. Instead, he was offering Moonves an "in" to the most coveted match-up in boxing: Floyd Mayweather vs. Manny Pacquiao. "Moonves' love of boxing, our love of boxing -- that gave me the confidence to say to him 'Give me a chance,'" said Salvador, an actor who has appeared in "Bones" and "Blue Bloods." "I said 'I can help you make this fight happen,' and he looked at me like, 'Okay, I'm listening.'" That's when Salvador told Moonves his son trained at the Hollywood gym owned by Freddie Roach, Pacquiao's trainer, and that he would put in a good word for Moonves. At that point, Salvador told CNN, he was driven more by his passion to see the fight happen than any real connection to Roach. But he got Roach's phone number from his son, Elijah, who was skeptical of his father's plan. Everybody had already tried, his son said. But Salvador made the call and gained an audience in Roach. "I said, 'Listen, I can help you make this fight happen,'" Salvador said in an interview with CNN. Salvador helped set up a meeting between Moonves, Roach and himself at Scarpetta in Beverly Hills that he says began with a discussion about the legacy of boxing. "Mr. Moonves said to me, 'If this fight happens, you're going to be sitting there,'" said Salvador. Salvador's role ended after that dinner. What followed was a series of meetings between Moonves and both sides that eventually ended the stalemate keeping Pacquiao and Mayweather from entering the same ring. The May 2 fight -- on the pay-per-view services of Showtime and HBO -- is expected to gross as much as $600 million. With that kind of money, and a smattering of media buzz around Salvador's story, inevitable questions circulated over what, if any, reward he should get, given the epic nature of the fight. When asked to comment, Pacquiao's team downplayed Salvador's role. "For him giving Les my phone number I don't think he deserves a finder's fee," Roach told CNN. Promoter Bob Arum said Salvador "got his 10 minutes of fame," though he called Salvador "a really nice guy." Salvador insists he is not seeking money, and a CBS spokesman confirmed his role in the initial meeting. "My reward will be sitting at the fight," Salvador said. Moonves made good on that promise -- Salvador will be ringside on Saturday night. "It's about taking a chance," Salvador said. "It's about putting people in touch with each other and being able to sit back and say, 'Wow, I planted that seed.'"
It was supposed to be a unique way to engage with their fans via social media -- but for Germany's most successful soccer club it turned into the ultimate public relations own goal. Bayern Munich, who can boast 22 German league titles and have four times been crowned champions of Europe, revealed they would be unveiling a "spectacular" new signing on Thursday -- a snippet of news to excite any fan. But when the announcement was made, on their official Facebook page, it turned out to be a new marketing tool that displayed users of the social networking site as the new signing. The gimmick immediately led to a backlash from angry supporters, who bombarded the club's Facebook page with over 5,000 largely negative comments -- forcing Bayern into a hasty retreat, complete with an apology. According to one sports PR expert, Bayern's concept was clever, but their execution undoubtedly missed the target. "The idea of enticing people online is a nice one but the fundamental problem is you don't do that so they end up feeling disappointed," Jason Madeley, founder of communications agency Hatch PR, told CNN. "What Bayern have failed to understand is the passion football fans have for their team and their excitement about getting a new striker. "They feel like they've been taken for a fool and what you can't do with fans is take them for a fool, you need to respect them as integral to the club and that brand. They've not thought it through very well." Within hours of their 'announcement' Bayern had posted the following statement on their Facebook page: "Sorry dear fans, as we see from your numerous comments, you are very upset about today's action. "It was not our intention to disappoint you with the new app. Rather, we wanted to provide you with this action and thus show how important each fan is for Bayern Munich." Most of Europe's top clubs have a Twitter account and a Facebook page, and are slowly grappling with how best to utilize them to interact with fans and grow their brand. But though Bayern's brainwave is novel and they can certainly claim to have got their message out to the masses -- it appears like they have snatched defeat from the jaws of victory. Madeley added: "We all say you've got to be part of the conversation; with fans it is so important to have an equal understanding of their views so you're part of that conversation." So what is the expert's view on the best way for Bayern to extricate themselves from this public relations mess? "Go and sign a very good striker tomorrow!"
The Obama administration has released more once-secret national security documents, this time detailing the origins of increased electronic surveillance to collect foreign intelligence in the months after the 9/11 attacks. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said Saturday in a statement that the material shows that President George W. Bush authorized spy agencies to collect contents of some overseas communications, as well as the bulk collection of domestic phone calls and e-mail metadata. The 10 documents show deep concern within the U.S. government over the possibility that other terrorist cells were operating in the United States, plotting a domestic attack like the ones that struck New York, Washington and Pennsylvania on September 11, 2001. One such document, from 2007, explains the government's concern: "We have numerous reasons to believe al-Qaeda is still plotting another attack on U.S. soil," then-DNI Michael McConnell says in a newly declassified declaration as part of an ongoing lawsuit over the telephone records. "Besides Bin Laden's own statements, his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, issued threats against the United States and its interests and enjoined Muslims worldwide to take up violent jihad in more than a dozen audio or video taped statements in 2006 and at least four thus far in 2007." McConnell adds, "The (U.S.) Intelligence Community assesses al Qaeda is most likely employing a diversified operational planning model, involving multiple, probably autonomous concurrent efforts." The agency over the summer began selected release of documents, following a pledge by President Barack Obama to increase transparency. Large sections of the newly released material were blacked out to "protect information that remains properly classified for national security reasons and because of the great harm to national security if disclosed," said the office of the Director of National Intelligence. The disclosure that the National Security Agency has been collecting metadata has stirred provoked from civil liberty groups worried about the impact on privacy rights. Bush's initial unilateral executive action in 2001 on the metadata collection was replaced by congressionally mandated updates to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. That revised law said federal judges working for a secret FISA court had to periodically approve the surveillance. Officials have previously said the changes to intelligence gathering and data collection proved key to stopping further incidents of domestic terrorism. "President Bush issued authorizations approximately every 30-60 days," the Director of National Intelligence office said Saturday in a statement. "Although the precise terms changed over time, each presidential authorization required the minimization of information collected concerning American citizens to the extent consistent with the effective accomplishment of the mission of detection and prevention of acts of terrorism within the United States." Obama said Friday that he was considering making changes within the National Security Agency, after a panel appointed by him made specific recommendations. Since former NSA contractor Edward Snowden leaked thousands of highly classified documents this year, the president and the intelligence community have promised greater public scrutiny of spying and anti-terrorist operations.
Editor's note: Do you have great pictures and stories to tell about your latest or favorite amusement park ride? Please let us know at CNN iReport's latest travel snapshot assignment: Theme Park Thrill Rides! (Travel and Leisure) -- As you speed along the ship's top-deck raft ride, waves break at the ocean's surface 150 feet below. It's an acrophobe's nightmare -- and could be the most thrilling moment of your next cruise vacation. We've come a long way in the century since the Titanic, when that ship's heated swimming pool was a mind-boggling luxury. Now it's AquaDuck, the cruise industry's first water coaster, that's making a splash on board the Disney Dream and Disney Fantasy. It takes pluck to stare down the AquaDuck and the rest of the world's craziest, record-breaking water slides. Some, like Brazil's 135-foot-high Insano, are traditional body slides, while others resemble intricate roller coasters and showcase innovation in water slide technology and design. Read on for more of the loopiest, crowd-pleasing water slides around the globe. RideHouse . Where: Happy Magic Water Cube Waterpark, Beijing . When news broke that the cutting-edge Beijing National Aquatics Center (aka the Water Cube) would be converted into a theme park, expectations were high. And sure enough, China's first themed indoor water attraction debuted in 2011 tricked out with valves, cranks, jellyfish, buckets, water cannons, giant bubbles, climb nets and spray tubes -- and that's the short list of design elements. Crazy Fact: RideHouse is made up of 12 slides (the most of any water-play structure in the world) and boasts its own giant water-filled cube that periodically soaks those waiting for their turn. Toboggan . Where: Città del Mare Hotel Village, Palermo, Italy . Eleven slides form Sicily's most scenic water attraction, which runs down a cliff on the northwest coast of the island. On a sun-drenched summer day, the turquoise slide, which is open to guests of the resort, complements the clear-blue waters of the Gulf of Castellammare -- the end point of Toboggan. Keep your eyes open: The slide passes three decks, and each level delivers spectacular views of the 67-acre property. Crazy Fact: A full top-to-bottom journey down this seaside slide will send you into four separate bodies of water: three pools and the Mediterranean Sea. King Cobra . Where: Six Flags Great Adventure, Jackson, New Jersey . The king cobra is the world's longest venomous snake, so it makes sense that this eponymous ride, which opened in July, promises to be one of the craziest theme-park attractions. Resembling a massive cobra, the ride makes an intimidating first impression with its oversize black, yellow and bold orange scales and allows two tubes to zip up to 32 mph. Crazy Fact: The ride's finale features a sudden 25-foot drop at a 50-degree angle that creates the illusion of riders being swallowed by the king's massive mouth. Travel and Leisure: World's coolest bazaars . Wild Vortex . Where: Wilderness at the Smokies, Tennessee . This water-park resort has indoor rides -- with a giant glass roof -- that keep the thrills coming all year long. But adrenaline junkies will want to head outdoors for the newest challenge: the 66-foot-tall Wild Vortex, which debuted in June. While the ride lasts only seven seconds, don't underestimate the rush you can get from its sharp vertical plunge and a gravity-powered loop-the-loop, which riders experience at a 2.5 g-force. Crazy Fact: Don't like surprises? Well, be warned that the first 39-foot free fall is initiated by the sudden release of a trap door. Behemoth Bowl . Where: Chimelong Water Park, Guangzhou, China . Seated face-to-face on four-person rafts, riders reach speeds of 32 feet per second as they plummet down a 262-foot-long translucent tunnel and into a 60-foot-wide bowl (the world's largest). After multiple spins, riders are dropped through a central chute and into a large splash pool. Crazy Fact: A YouTube search of bowl slides turns up videos of unsuspecting riders getting stuck in the "drain." Not on this slide. ProSlide's patented CorkScrew™ exit system is the ride's essential design component and ensures a safe ejection. Phew. Insano . Where: Beach Park, Aquiraz, Brazil . Brazil's 135-foot attraction stands out from the crowd, even if it's not quite the tallest waterslide to make our list (Italy's 197-foot Divertical takes that title). Riders are certainly impressed and wait in line to brave that infamous 14-story drop. And you can expect those lines to get longer: In 2011, Brazil's largest water park hosted 788,000 visitors, which represents a 7% increase from the prior year. Crazy Fact: The singular sharp slope produces a rapid descent; Insano plunges at a speed of 65 mph, taking riders from start to heart-pounding finish in less than five seconds. Divertical . Where: Mirabilandia, Ravenna, Italy . Say hello to the world's tallest water ride: the $26 million Divertical, which officially debuted in June. The coaster features a one-of-a-kind elevator lift system that brings 10-person boats to the top of the 197-foot-tall attraction. As they slide along a roller coaster track, riders face drops, hairpin turns and then an oversize splash pool at the finish line. Crazy Fact: The initial plunge takes you through a 45-degree water flume at more than 65 mph. Travel and Leisure: America's best swimming holes . Wiegand Maelzer Slide Tower . Where: Area 47, Tyrol, Austria . This stainless-steel lakeside attraction showcases flawless craftsmanship -- not to mention a handful of pretty extreme slides. After climbing up the 90-foot tower, riders have their pick among five, including a 328-foot-long chute with an added jump section at the bottom. Crazy Fact: The tower is also fitted with five diving boards (at 6.5, 16, 33, 66 and 91 feet high), though the tallest two are reserved for professional divers. Leap of Faith . Where: Aquaventure Water Park, Atlantis Paradise Island, Bahamas . This 60-foot-tall, nearly perpendicular slide cascades down a life-size replica of a Mayan temple -- the hallmark of the resort's 140-acre waterscape. But for many, the real "leap of faith" occurs after the initial drop when you're subsequently propelled through a clear acrylic tunnel in a shark-infested lagoon. Crazy Fact: In 2008, a female reef shark vaulted out of its tank and landed on the slide. While no resort guests were harmed (the water park had yet to open for the morning), the shark could not tolerate the chlorinated water and died shortly afterward. Cliffhanger . Where: Schlitterbahn, Galveston, Texas . The park's crowd-pleasing attraction, which debuted in 2007, was part of a significant expansion -- and Cliffhanger still stands as the tallest and steepest ride among all four Schlitterbahn parks in the U.S. Like Summit Plummet, this single body slide consists of an alarming vertical drop. After being propelled from the top of the tower, riders plunge nearly 81 feet at speeds of up to 35 mph. Crazy Fact: The Cliffhanger is designed as an open chute, so you'll be fully aware and exposed every second of that free-fall drop. Mammoth . Where: Holiday World and Splashin' Safari, Santa Claus, Indiana . The $5.5 million Wildebeest ride, a high-speed hydromagnetic water coaster that uses linear induction motor technology, put this water park on the map in 2011. Holiday World continues to expand with Mammoth, a slide towering seven stories and stretching more than three acres -- making it the world's longest water coaster. (Wildebeest takes second place.) Crazy Fact: Six-person rafts are propelled up and down hills in 12-foot-wide channels. There are five enclosed slide sections, which means you'll be doing that twisting and shouting in the dark. Travel and Leisure: World's coolest pools . AquaDuck . Where: Disney Dream and Disney Fantasy cruise ships . Meet "the Duck" -- the cruise industry's first-ever shipboard water coaster. The 765-foot-long, four-deck-high AquaDuck debuted on Disney Dream in 2011 and has since been added to Disney Fantasy. Atop the aft deck, passengers hop on a two-person inflatable raft that is then propelled forward by high-powered water jets. Expect to be dropped, looped around and accelerated. Crazy Fact: After the initial drop, riders are thrust through a clear acrylic "swing out" flume that extends 12 feet over the side of the ship -- and 150 feet above the ocean's surface. Mount Gushmore's Summit Plummet . Where: Blizzard Beach at Walt Disney World, Orlando . The first thing you see when you enter Blizzard Beach is 90-foot snowcapped Mount Gushmore, the world's most photographed faux-mountain and home to one of the fastest free-fall speed slides. From the Summit's ski jump tower, riders take a vertical plunge straight down to the base of the mountain. Crazy Fact: Exactly how vertical is that drop? You'll plummet 120 feet (about 12 stories) at a speed of 60 mph. Travel and Leisure: World's craziest waterslides . Planning a getaway? Don't miss Travel + Leisure's guide to the World's Best Hotels . Copyright 2012 American Express Publishing Corporation. All rights reserved.
Its winds no longer a major threat, a stalled Tropical Storm Karen still carried the threat of storm surge to portions of the U.S. Gulf Coast. The National Hurricane Center (NHC) said the storm's maximum sustained winds were at 40 mph on Saturday evening. The storm was idle much of Saturday night, but forecasters predicted it would turn northeast and gain speed going into Sunday, when it was expected to weaken to a tropical depression. The center of the storm will move just south of the Gulf Coast from Alabama to the Florida Panhandle on Sunday night and Monday, the NHC predicted. The storm will dissipate into a remnant area of low pressure on Sunday evening, with no secondary landfall along the northern Gulf Coast, forecasters said. A tropical storm warning was in effect for Grand Isle, Louisiana, to the mouth of the Pearl River. Coastal residents were warned that storm surges and dangerous waves remained possible. The storm is expected to drop up to 3 inches of rain over parts of the central and eastern Gulf Coast through Sunday night, mainly near and to the east of the storm's center, the hurricane center said. Storm surges also are a concern. If peak surges coincide with high tide, water could reach up to 3 feet above ground from the mouth of the Mississippi River in Louisiana to Alabama's Mobile Bay, the center said. "The combination of storm surge and the tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters," the center said. CNN's Sean Morris, Eliott C. McLaughlin, Todd Borek and David Simpson contributed to this report.
Acting Veterans Affairs Secretary Sloan Gibson, visiting the Phoenix VA facility where a report found 1,700 veterans were left off waiting lists, said Thursday that changes there signal the beginning of needed reforms. The VA has contacted the veterans cited in an internal report and has begun to schedule appointments, Gibson said. "Getting this right is our top priority, and taking care of the veterans here in Phoenix is a good place to start," he said. The Veterans Affairs scandal has mushroomed since CNN first reported last November on allegations of alarming shortcomings within the VA medical care system that potentially had deadly consequences in dozens of cases. The most disturbing and striking problems emerged in Arizona last month, with sources revealing to CNN details of a secret waiting list for treatment. According to the sources, at least 40 veterans died while waiting for care at the Phoenix medical center. The VA has acknowledged 23 deaths nationwide due to delayed care. Gibson said the results of a nationwide audit and numbers from patient wait data will be released on Monday and will show how systemic problems are at the agency. The VA is looking to contract with non-VA medical-care providers in the Phoenix area to assist with primary care, he said, and is sending three mobile units. Gibson said that the VA will hire temporary workers to ensure veterans get the care they deserve. He also announced the department has suspended bonuses for senior executives for the financial year. "Additionally, we will remove the 14-day scheduling goal from employee performance contracts to eliminate any incentives to engage in inappropriate behavior," he said. In some cases, wait times were manipulated to meet employee performance goals needed for bonuses, two VA reports revealed. Gibson replaced Eric Shinseki, who resigned last week. Were bonuses tied to VA wait times? Here's what we know . The announced changes come the same day Senate negotiators reached a deal -- which will have to be approved by the full Senate -- on a bill that would approve the building of new VA facilities, bring about the hiring of more doctors and nurses and allow veterans in rural areas to go to non-VA doctors. It should go to the Senate floor next week, according to aides. Senate reaches deal on VA bill .
The U.S. wants to test claims by Somalia's al Qaeda-linked group Al-Shabaab that it will lift the ban on relief organizations to avoid a humanitarian disaster caused by drought in the Horn of Africa nation, the State Department said Wednesday. The Horn of Africa region is experiencing the worst drought in 60 years, with Somalia experiencing pre-famine conditions. Al-Shabaab said Tuesday it would lift a ban on foreign food agencies in drought-hit areas under its control. The United Nations estimates 2.8 million Somalis need emergency aid. There are currently about 1.5 million internally displaced people, and the drought conditions have driven thousands of Somalis over the border into Kenya and Ethiopia. Al-Shabaab banned foreign aid organizations from operating in the country in 2009, accusing them of being anti-Muslim. On Wednesday it reversed its stand, saying it welcomed help from any group which did not have a hidden agenda and has formed a committee to deal with the situation. The group urged all aid groups to co-ordinate their relief actions with the committee for access and assistance. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said that the U.S. was "very concerned" about the drought and resulting food shortages. The U.S. has already delivered more than 1,900 metric tons of food aid through the World Food Program. Nuland said Secretary of State Hillary Clinton tasked her staff Wednesday with looking at what else can be done to "avoid a major humanitarian catastrophe," including probing whether Al-Shabaab can be taken at its word. "The secretary wants to ensure we do all we can to avoid a humanitarian disaster, and if Al-Shabaab is now saying it will allow these humanitarian efforts, then the international community should test that because they have been a problem in the past," Nuland said.
It all started with ice cream. "I saw a long line of people waiting for a free scoop at the Baskin Robbins next to my store," said Joe Field, owner and operator of Flying Colors Comics & Other Cool Stuff in Concord, California. "Knowing that comics are even cooler than ice cream, I was convinced that publishers, retailers and our major distributor, Diamond, could all band together to do something powerful to attract people of all ages and interests to check out their local comics shops." Thus, Free Comic Book Day was born. It was during a tough time for the comic book industry. The first one came in 2002, the same year "Spider-Man" became a blockbuster in theaters. Just six years earlier, however, Marvel Comics filed for bankruptcy, and comic books had been struggling ever since. The idea of Free Comic Book Day is simple: Publishers put out one or two comic books each year for free on the first Saturday in May for the 300,000 to 500,000 customers who show up at local comic book stores. Saturday's event will be the 10th. Store owners like Kyle Puttkammer, of Georgia's Galactic Quest, see it as a big success. "It's the biggest sales day of the year for us, and many people discover us for the first time," he said. Many store owners make the day into an all-out event. Puttkammer plans to have an '80s cover band, a replica of the 1960s Batmobile and actors from AMC's zombie-themed TV show "The Walking Dead," among other things, at his two stores. At Earth 2 Comics in Los Angeles, customers will be able to meet popular writer and DC Comics Chief Creative Officer Geoff Johns. "I consider it to be like a national holiday celebrating comic books, where the industry metaphorically opens their doors to the public," said Valerie D'Orazio, editor of MTV Geek. "Gaining new -- and especially younger -- readers is absolutely crucial to the health of the comic book industry, now more than ever before." Comic book publishers usually offer titles with storylines that can be easily followed and, in many cases, issues aimed at younger readers. "We try to make them as new-reader-friendly as possible," said Axel Alonso, editor-in-chief at Marvel Comics. "We usually don't push the envelope in terms of content." "Our hope is that the comic books that fans pick up on Free Comic Book Day, for a lot of them, might be their first one," DC Comics co-Publisher Jim Lee said, explaining how it chooses which issues to offer. "We want to take a character that's well-known and accessible to the readership and at the same time, tie in to some of the future plans we have for publishing." "When I was growing up, there were comics in the barber shop. Not any more," said Bob Bretall of the Comic Book Page podcast. "Today, comics are mostly in specialty comics shops. They are not anyplace that a kid is likely to see them by happenstance, so having an event that will draw people to the 'few and far between' locations that offer comics is crucial to getting this key demographic interested in comics." According to trend-watching magazine ICv2, the industry is starting to see growth. "ICv2 has tracked industry sales since 2005, when North American comic and graphic novel sales were $565 million," Publisher Milton Griepp said. "In 2009, industry sales were $680 million." "We anticipated that this year's event would be the biggest ever based on the best selection ever of free comics based on well-known properties, and based on the record orders for comics to be give away, it will be," he added. So why is "FCBD" so highly anticipated this year? Here's what some of the major publishers have on tap for Saturday's big event: . Marvel Comics . Marvel's superheroes have had movies in theaters over the weekend of "FCBD" for several years now. This year, it's "Thor," and this year's free comic is an all-ages story starring Thor and Captain America (who has his own movie in July), entitled "Captain America/Thor: The Mighty Fighting Avengers." Alonso compares it to "a Pixar movie that's accessible for adults and children. It's meant to be a jumping-on point into comics, essentially." The "Spider Island" story arc is going to be big for the company this year, and so many fans, as well as new readers, will probably seek out the free "Amazing Spider-Man" comic, by Dan Slott and Humberto Ramos, that ties into it. "It's two of our top talents on a full-length story," Alonso said. DC Comics . Not to be outdone, one of DC's characters is headed to the big screen for the first time next month, and "Green Lantern Special Edition" will be a hot issue this year. It also includes a preview of the big crossover "Flashpoint." "We've seen some orders that have been better in the past than Free Comic Book Day," co-Publisher Dan DiDio said. "The preview of 'Flashpoint' is exciting a lot of our retailers." DC will also offer a "Young Justice/Batman: Brave and the Bold" issue aimed at young readers, based on the two animated series on Cartoon Network (both Cartoon Network and DC are owned by Time Warner, which also owns CNN). Dark Horse Comics . The company best known for "Hellboy," as well as the adaptations of "Star Wars" and "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," will also be aiming for readers of all ages with an issue that features "Avatar: The Last Airbender" and "Star Wars: The Clone Wars." "We have an expanded library of 'Star Wars: Clones Wars' comics but are just beginning our Last Airbender program," Editor Sierra Hahn said. "I think we're constantly trying to find material that will appeal to younger readers. When you discover something you love at a young age, chances are you'll stick by it through adulthood, and the material will age with you." Like many of the other companies, it also has something for older readers in two horror comics, "Baltimore" from "Hellboy" creator Mike Mignola and "Criminal Macabre." Image Comics . "The Walking Dead" has been a runaway hit for this company in recent years, but its "FCBD" offering is decidedly tamer in the "Super Dinosaur Origin Special," written by "Dead" creator Robert Kirkman. "Super Dinosaur" made its debut in stores last month, and the company hopes Kirkman will hit another home run, this time with a broader audience. "Whether you're talking comics or movies or music or television -- any form of entertainment -- a graying fan base is going to be your undoing just through attrition," Publisher Eric Stephenson said. "You have to continually find ways to appeal to a younger audience, and I think what Joe Field has come up with Free Comic Book Day is a great way of doing that." IDW Publishing . It made its name with licensed properties like "True Blood," Transformers," "G.I. Joe" and "Doctor Who," and this year, IDW is offering up an original issue of its cult hit "Locke & Key." "It was recently nominated for four Eisner awards," CEO and Publisher Ted Adams said. "Fox just shot a pilot for it, and hopefully it will be on air this fall." "Locke & Key" is usually intended for mature audiences, but this issue is different: "We purposefully chose a story that was all ages. It's an action-based story, so it's OK for kids, but the actual book is intended for adults." No matter their ages, Adams, like others in the industry, hopes readers will enjoy Saturday's festivities at their nearby comic book store: "It's sort of like Christmas and Halloween and Thanksgiving rolled into one."
When the water of Lake Delton ripped through the highway and drained into the Wisconsin River this week, so did the lifeline for much of the surrounding community. Boats sit mired in mud Tuesday after Lake Delton drained into the Wisconsin River the day before. Lake Delton Village and Wisconsin Dells, the self-professed "waterpark capital of the world," are home to about 5,000 residents. But the area's motels, resorts and vacation homes can accommodate more than 10 times that, according to the visitors bureau. Innkeepers, restaurateurs and other business owners were getting ready for the typically bustling tourist season this week when torrential rains sent the 267-acre lake rushing through an embankment propping up Highway A. The manmade lake sucked a 200-foot swath of highway and a half-dozen homes into the Wisconsin with it. "I was on the water when I realized the plug had been pulled," said Steve Zowin, who was towing a capsized pontoon boat when he noticed the water level quickly diminishing. "It drained like a bathtub."  Watch a report from the lake » . Zowin and his wife, Kathy, have owned Lake Delton Watersports for almost three decades. In addition to running a marina, the couple offers parasail rides and rents boats. Personal watercraft and ski boats are their most popular wares, he said. "My gross income will be reduced by about 75 percent, and that's huge," he said Wednesday. "It's a big step backwards for someone who's been in business for 29 years." Zowin, 56, says that most of the tourists hail from metropolises like Chicago, Illinois; St. Paul/Minneapolis, Minnesota; and Madison and Milwaukee, Wisconsin -- all "within a gas tank of the Dells." They start trickling in on Father's Day, and tourism booms between Independence Day and mid-August, he said. Like many business owners around Lake Delton, Zowin is seeing canceled reservations from disenchanted visitors who will be spending their summers elsewhere. Asked whether visitors were canceling reservations at her lakeside resort, one owner who didn't want to give her name replied, "Every day, many." Thomas Brown, who owns Port Vista, a popular burger and steak joint on the lake, said that one of his resort-owner friends has refunded $10,000 in deposits for canceled reservations. The friend has closed his resort until at least July, Brown said. iReport.com: Are you near the floods? Send photos, video . Brown, 49, who has owned the bar and restaurant for 15 years, said business hasn't been hit hard yet. "The first couple of days has been absolutely packed because of all the people coming by to look at the lake and stopping by for a burger or steak," he said, adding that he doesn't expect business to boom for long. "I think when people see what they have to see, it's going to be not so good." Some business owners who aren't on the lakefront are still trying to gauge what effect the drained lake will have on them.  Watch the rushing lake carry a home away » . Del-Bar is a popular seafood and steak restaurant near the lake on Wisconsin Dells Parkway. It's so popular, in fact, that actor Johnny Depp and director Michael Mann recently stopped in during filming of their upcoming movie "Public Enemies," owner Jeff Wimmer said. Wimmer said his restaurant, which he has owned for 30 years, may be more resilient than lakefront businesses because he relies more on Wisconsin Dells locals. The 66-year-old knows that the summer brings hungry tourists; it's just too early to tell how many of them have been deterred by the dry lake bed. "We're anticipating that it's going to affect us, but it's too early to tell right now," Wimmer said. How long the lake will remain dry is also a question. Business owners say, some skeptically, that there are efforts afoot to refill the lake by mid-July. Delton Oaks Resort ran a warning on its Web site to potential guests, explaining that there was no timetable for refilling the lake and repairing the highway. But the resort's owners showed they still have a sense of humor. "We at Delton Oaks Resort are 'make lemonade' kind of people, so we will be adding terrific beach volleyball and horseshoe courts in the near future. And, of course, building sand castles on the beach will be big this year," the site quipped. "For all you dog lovers, as soon as the last of the lake bed has dried up, we will have the biggest dog park you've ever seen." Even if the lake is refilled quickly, business owners like Zowin and Brown fear that the lake's splendid fishing might not make a rapid rebound. The lake was home to white and largemouth bass, walleye, crappie, bluegill and perch, but those fish are now in the Wisconsin River after their habitat burst through the Highway A embankment. "Fishing might be gone for the next four or five years," Brown predicted. Business owners around Lake Delton say they hope to bounce back sooner, perhaps by next summer, but this summer may be a wash. "Once in a while, the more serious ramifications -- mostly financial -- they hit me, and I'm flooded with a few emotions," Zowin said. "It's going to hurt, but I'll survive."
Seven-times world champion Michael Schumacher has laughed off rumors that he is planning to quit Formula One at the end of the season, confirming he is still totally committed to driving for Mercedes GP. The 42-year-old German's future has come under scrutiny in recent weeks after a series of disappointing drives, with reports that Mercedes are planning to replace him for the 2012 campaign. In 2010, Schumacher was overshadowed by younger team-mate Nico Rosberg, and although he has closed the gap this season, Rosberg continues to out-score his more illustrious team-mate. Latest F1 standings after Hungarian GP . However, in an interview with the official Mercedes website, Schumacher said: "Despite some funny rumours and stupid untruthful stories, I keep repeating myself that you will see me in 2012, whether you like it or don't like it." Schumacher added: "The good thing is that I have a lot of support from all around me. "I have support from the company and the team -- they all want me to be here and I want to be here, so I am looking forward to next season." Schumacher's Mercedes car has struggled to keep pace with the Red Bull, McLaren and Ferrari cars this season. His best result came in June's Canadian Grand Prix, when he turned back the clock to finish in an impressive fourth place.
It has been the official home of the British monarchy since 1837. But for two nights, Buckingham Palace is being transformed into the canvas for a world record attempt of the biggest ever collaboration of artists into a single art installation. A majestic mosaic of Queen Elizabeth II projected on to the palace faÃ§ade is composed of over 200,000 self portraits of children from across the United Kingdom. As well as self portraits from children, some of Britain's most well-known faces have submitted artwork for the project including award winning Grammy singer and songwriter Adele and Rolling Stones rocker Ronnie Wood. Gallery: From royal residence to record-breaking art . The project, Face Britain comes from The Prince's Foundation for Children and the Arts. The images will be projected on Buckingham Palace until 21 April. It aims to provide a platform to celebrate the nation's younger generations in the lead up to this year's Diamond Jubilee and Olympic Games.
We can't settle iPhone vs. Android or "Star Wars" vs. "Star Trek" for you. But another long-running geek debate was put to rest Tuesday night. Those short, animated loops that have captivated the Web for decades? They're pronounced like a brand of peanut butter. Steve Wilhite created the Graphics Interchange Format, or GIF, while working for Compuserve in 1987. On Tuesday, he received a Webby Award for it and delivered his five-word acceptance speech (that's all the Webbys allow) by flashing a GIF on the big screens at the Cipriani Wall Street in New York. And, in a flash, it all became clear: . "It's pronounced JIF, not GIF." Of course, in the grand tradition of heated debate, a flat statement of fact by the creator wasn't enough to sway some partisans. On Twitter, "GIF" became a trending topic as some folks pushed back. "Graphics Interchange Format. Graphics. Not Jraphics. #GIF #hardg," wrote Web designer Dan Cederholm. "So instead of GIF, we've got to say JIF? YEAH RIGHT," chimed in October Jones, creator of the "Texts From Dog" Tumblr and book. "And I suppose those animals with long necks are called 'JIRAFFES.'" And, of course, the peanut butter brand was getting lots of free publicity along the way. The always amusing HAL 9000 account (yes, somebody tweets as the robot from "2001") posted an "animated JIF" -- which is to say, a swirling, animated jar of the tasty, high-protein spread. So, it's perhaps no surprise that the company got into the act itself. Wednesday afternoon, the company took to Twitter with a post reading, "It's pronounced Jif® ." The tweet linked to, what else, a multi-colored GIF flashing the same phrase. Animated GIFs were a staple of the early Internet. Remember The Dancing Baby? That's a GIF. They fell out of favor as more advanced graphics technology emerged. But in the past couple of years, the Web has remembered how much fun it is to watch ridiculous things happen over and over again. Appropriately, Wilhite received his Lifetime Achievement Award from David Karp, the founder of Tumblr, one prominent place where GIFs found a new fanbase. In less publicized interviews, Wilhite had argued for the soft-G pronunciation for years. So, will a widely covered "speech" in front of some of the Web's most influential folks finally be the turning point? Maybe not. Last month, no less an authority than the White House posted an image on its new Tumblr feed advocating for the hard-G. And the Oxford English Dictionary says both pronunciations are acceptable. So, here's wishing Mr. Wilhite "Jood Luck."
A state commission issued a finding of probable cause that racism was involved in the decision by a suburban Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, swim club to revoke privileges of a largely minority day care center. Some kids from the Creative Steps Day Care center say club members made racist remarks. The Valley Swim Club canceled a contract for swimming privileges for the approximately 65 children from the Creative Steps day care center after a visit June 29. Some black and Hispanic children said white club members made racist comments to them during that visit, asking why black children were there and raising concerns that "they might steal from us." The Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission, in its 33-page finding, details the incident. It notes that the swim club maintains that it canceled its relationship with the day care center because members were requesting that their membership fees be refunded and because of safety concerns "attendant with overcrowding of the shallow end of the pool by a large number of non-swimmers." But the commission, in its finding, stated that the club "routinely has members at the facility in numbers that are equal in size or exceed the number of Creative Steps campers." The club has also hosted groups of similar size without raising safety concerns, the commission said. As the group was swimming at the club, one of its members voiced concerns that "all of these black kids" might "do something to my child." When confronted by a Creative Steps official, the woman -- a teacher at a local school -- denied the comment but said she was concerned because one of the children "was a known thief" and had previously stolen a cell phone. The commission found no evidence that the child was ever accused of or disciplined for stealing at the school. Other group members sent negative e-mails to club board members after the incident. One board member said in an e-mail, according to the commission, "I feel we were mislead (sic) with the type of camp this was. This camp is a city camp and it is run with tax payers money. This is not the type of camp that is going to bring any new members into the club." The finding is "an invitation to sit down with our staff and have the parties settle their differences," commission Chairman Stephen Glassman said. "If they don't, it will go on to a public hearing." Depending on the outcome of that process, the club could face damages for humiliation and embarrassment, as well as a civil penalty of up to $50,000, commission spokeswoman Shannon Powers said. The public hearing, she said, is held before a body of commissioners. The commission enforces state human rights law, Powers said. It launched an investigation into the incident after being contacted by a number of advocacy organizations following media coverage of the story. Since then, she said, a number of complaints have been filed with the commission. The commission noted in the finding that none of the club's 155 paid members this year was African-American and that last year there were "179 paid memberships, none of whom were African American." In addition, the commission said that in 2009, the Valley Swim Club "made a concerted effort to expand the geographic range of its membership by engaging in a marketing campaign. ... The respondent efforts were mainly directed at areas with overwhelmingly caucasian populations. ... The respondent made no effort to direct such marketing efforts at areas with significant African-American populations." Glassman said the swim club had 30 days to appeal the finding. Joe Tucker, a lawyer for the club, said his client will do just that. "We believe this is wrong," he said. "I believe the people at the PHRC are very good people, but they were put in a tough position. ... If the PHRC would have decided against the children or in favor of the club, they would have been painted with the same unfair and untrue racist brush that the Valley Swim Club was painted with." The day care center had originally contracted to use the pool during the summer, but the club canceled the agreement and returned the day care center's $1,950 check without explanation. The club canceled contracts with two other day care centers because of safety and crowding, swim club director John Duesler said. Those facilities have not protested the club's actions. The issue was exacerbated when Duesler told two Philadelphia television stations that the children had changed "the complexion" and "atmosphere" of the club. The comment brought protesters outside the facility. Duesler later said that safety and crowding, not racism, prompted the cancellation. As the controversy gained national attention, the swim club asked the day care center to return. Center officials refused and said they would pursue a lawsuit.
The tears of joy from a year ago turned to tears of sorrow as Zambia became the first defending champion to be knocked out in the first round of the Africa Cup of Nations in 21 years. Herve Renard's side was held to a goalless draw by group winners Burkina Faso in Nelspruit, South Africa Tuesday. That result, combined with Nigeria's 2-0 win over Ethiopia, sent the Super Eagles through and left Zambia inconsolable. Zambia coach Renard told reporters: "It's better to have won something in your life than always qualify for the quarterfinals, but never win anything. "Everybody is sad but my players did their maximum, and I'm very proud of them. It's not the end of the world. "I loved my team tonight, I can't play with eight defenders. If there is someone who is responsible (for our elimination) then it's me, not my players." Burkina Faso take giant stride towards knockout stage . Two penalties from Chelsea's Victor Moses set up an intriguing looking quarterfinal between Nigeria and tournament favorite Ivory Coast. Burkina Faso, which until this year had never won a game in the competition away from home, will find out Wednesday whether it will face Togo or Tunisia. "We believed we could go further in this. It's a night of history for Burkina Faso," coach Paul Putt told reporters. "We had double motivation being close to qualification and playing against the champions. I told the players this chance might never come again." Mali bring cheer . Just 12 months ago in Gabon, the Chipolopolo celebrated its shock win where they were inspired by the loss of the 1993 Zambian team, which perished in a plane crash close to the venue of the final in Libreville. But it was unable to pull off a repeat this time around, managing three draws in its three group games. Instead, it was Nigeria which took second place behind Burkina Faso following a hard-fought win over Ethiopia in Rustenburg. Fuad Ibrahim eyes Ethiopia chance . Ethiopia, which returned to the tournament for the first time in 31 years, fell behind on 79 minutes when Moses fired home from the penalty spot. It got worse for Ethiopia 11 minutes later when goalkeeper Sasay Bancha was sent off for bringing down Moses inside the penalty area. Moses added a second from 12-yards to spark wild celebrations and seal Nigeria's place in the last eight. "This is a victory for Nigerians where ever they are in the world," Nigeria coach Stephen Keshi told reporters. "This is a time for celebration.I thought Sunday Mba was outstanding in midfield and his introduction is part of my plan to build a team around young players, and senior players like captain Joseph Yobo, vice-captain Victor Enyeama and John Obi Mikel. "Now we face title favorites Ivory Coast in the quarterfinals and there will be no second chance for either side. I have a game plan but, with respect, that is for the players and not for you guys (journalists)."
Teenage boys in fast cars -- it's a rite of passage. Except it's a bit different for 19-year-old Daniil Kvyat -- he's about to step into the world of Formula One. The Russian has been confirmed as Toro Rosso's new driver for the 2014 season, replacing Red Bull-bound Daniel Ricciardo. Kvyat will partner Jean-Eric Vergne after graduating through the Red Bull Junior Driver Program. 'Fantastic' "This is fantastic news, a dream come true and I want to thank Red Bull and Toro Rosso for giving me this priceless opportunity," Kvyat told the team's website. "Ever since I began karting, I wanted to get to Formula One and now that wish will become reality next season. "I had a brief taste of working with the Toro Rosso team when I drove for them at the Silverstone test and I enjoyed the experience very much. "The fact I am based in Italy and speak Italian will, I am sure, help me to become part of the team very quickly." Kvyat, who is based in Rome, has been participating in GP3 and the European Formula Three championship while also testing for Toro Rosso at a young driver session at Silverstone last July. Last year, Kvyatt won the Formula Renault 2.0 title with seven race victories. This season, he has recorded one win following six rounds of the European Formula Three Championship while amassing five poles and five podiums. He could yet win the GP3 title, with just seven points separating him from the leader. Talented . "We are pleased to continue our policy of bringing on drivers from the Red Bull Junior Program," said Toro Rosso team principal Franz Tost. "Daniil is a very talented driver, which can be seen from his results in all the junior categories. "He impressed our team with a strong performance and very informative technical feedback at the young driver test in Silverstone. "This suggests that the basic qualities from which he can progress are all in place. "Daniil can be sure that we will use all our experience of training youngsters to give him the best possible start to his Formula One career." Russia could have two teenage drivers on the starting grid in Australia next March, with the Sauber team hoping to fast track Sergey Sirotkin into a race seat. The 18-year-old will try to earn an FIA super license during the post-season winter testing program, with the goal of racing at the inaugural Russian Grand Prix in Sochi in October.
Barcelona hope to welcome back Spain midfielder Andres Iniesta to their depleted team for Tuesday's second leg of the European Champions League quarterfinal against Arsenal. The influential Iniesta missed last week's 2-2 draw in London with a hamstring injury, but has been named in the titleholders' 19-man squad after receiving medical clearance. "He has got better over the last few days. It will depend a lot on how he feels after training this evening and tomorrow morning" coach Pep Guardiola told Barcelona's Web site on Monday. However, Sweden striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic -- who scored both goals in England -- misses out after suffering a calf injury in the warm-up before Saturday's 4-1 win over Athletic Bilbao. Teenager Bojan Krkic, who scored two goals after stepping up in that match, will compete for a starting place alongside Lionel Messi with former Arsenal forward Thierry Henry. Blog: Is Messi better than Maradona? Barca coach Pep Guardiola is missing suspended captain Carles Puyol and fellow defender Gerard Pique, while Dmytro Chygrynskiy is cup-tied, so Mexico international Rafael Marquez and Argentina's Gabriel Milito should feature in the back four. Right-back Daniel Alves returns from his domestic ban and midfielder Yaya Toure could play despite suffering an injury against Bilbao, while reserve players Andreu Fontas and Jonathan dos Santos were included in the squad, Barcelona's Web site reported on Monday. Barcelona blew a two-goal lead in the first leg despite dominating the first hour, and Guardiola said his team had to focus on the game and not be distracted by Saturday's showdown with Spanish title rivals Real Madrid. "Making it through this round or not will decide everything," he said. "So we have to stay alive in the Champions League in order to be optimistic about the eight league matches we have left. "Whoever maintains possession of the ball and makes the other team run will take this match. We played very well over there and displayed good football, but they can play too and that's why they came back for a draw." Blog: Man Utd will win Champions League . Arsenal have suffered another injury blow with midfielder Alex Song ruled out with a knee problem, joining captain Cesc Fabregas, France defender William Gallas and Russia forward Andrei Arshavin on the sidelines. Cameroon international Song was substituted during Saturday's Premier League win over Wolverhampton due to a groin worry, but a scan on his knee has revealed cartilage damage. Song had filled in for Gallas in central defense against Barcelona, but was caught out for both of Ibrahimovic's goals. Manager Arsene Wenger said he was unsure whether veteran Sol Campbell would partner Thomas Vermaelen in Song's place, as the former England international was struggling to recover from his weekend exertions. "That is a decision I have to make after speaking to him tomorrow," he told Arsenal's Web site on Monday. "Today he was still not completely available although he managed to get a warm-up. "To go into such a game you must be completely fit or not play at all." Whichever team progresses to the last four will face a semifinal against either Italian champions Inter Milan or Russia's CSKA Moscow. Jose Mourinho's Inter team hold a slender 1-0 lead going into the second leg on Tuesday, which will be played on CSKA's artificial pitch. Dutch midfielder Wesley Sneijder may miss the match after injuring an ankle in training on Monday, while goalkeeper Julio Cesar and center-back Ivan Cordoba also face late fitness tests after picking up knocks in Saturday's 3-0 win over Bologna. CSKA, seeking to become the first Russian team to reach the semifinals of Europe's premier club competition since Moscow rivals Spartak in 1991, will be without the services of suspended midfielders Evgeni Aldonin and Milos Krasic. "The most important thing is the result. If we qualify without playing spectacular football, I am sure everyone at the club will be happy," coach Leonid Slutsky told reporters. "I do not think it will help us to play on the artificial field. Judging from the Russia national team's games on the pitch and the manner in which the Russian teams have played in Europe, I do not think there are big differences."
(CNN)Film director David Lynch has confirmed he will no longer direct the revival of "Twin Peaks" -- a cult 1990s television show that was set to return in 2016. The offbeat TV series, created by Lynch and Mark Frost, featured a quirky FBI agent who went to the Pacific Northwest town of Twin Peaks to investigate the mysterious murder of a high school girl named Laura Palmer. The groundbreaking series is considered one of the most influential shows in television history. Lynch broke the news about his departure in a series of tweets, saying that the show's third season will continue without him. He said he felt the network was not offering enough money to produce the show "the way it needed to be done." Lynch also wrote that he had personally called the actors over the weekend to let them know he would no longer be directing. Showtime Network, which will air the nine-episode comeback, released a statement saying they were "saddened" by Lynch's decision. "We were saddened to read David Lynch's statement today since we believed we were working towards solutions with David and his reps on the few remaining deal points," read the statement. "Showtime also loves the world of Twin Peaks and we continue to hold out hope that we can bring it back in all its glory with both of its extraordinary creators, David Lynch and Mark Frost, at its helm." Showtime announced they would produce a third season in October last year. Actor Kyle MacLachlan, who played the coffee-obsessed FBI agent Dale Cooper in the original series, had confirmed he would reprise the lead role for the new season.
Crowds filled the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in Washington on Friday, as they regularly do during the summer months. This Friday, however, was different, as people lined up outside the building, waiting for the last launch in the shuttle program's 30-year history. Among them was Reagan Diesing, born in 2002, 21 years after the first shuttle launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida. The 9-year old Virginian, along with sister Ashlyn and mother Vicki, joined about 275 others who watched the last shuttle launch at the museum. "It's sad," Reagan said. "... I remember in school learning that everybody wanted to get to space and it was their dream and I am upset that they are just giving it up." Standing outside the museum, C.C. Chapman of Boston also expressed regret. "It is the end of an era.," he said. "I remember the first shuttle and it is going away, unfortunately." The crowd filled the Moving Beyond Earth room 30 minutes before the shuttle was scheduled to launch. Even nine minutes out, there was a buzz in the room as the countdown clock ticked closer to zero. Surrounded by models of the different shuttles and the International Space Station, people exchanged stories about shuttle launches, including some about seeing one at the Kennedy Space Center. "I remember being a toddler and watching some of the first launches at home in my living room with my family," said Jamie Mitchell from Washington. "And I finally did have a chance to go witness a launch in February of this year, saw the last launch of Discovery, and there is nothing like that." With a reported 70 percent chance the shuttle would not launch on Friday, people were happy that the countdown passed the five-minute mark. Then the four, the three the two and the one. All was going according to plan when, at 31 seconds, the countdown stopped. Air was sucked from the room, people fretted that they might not witness the historic moment Friday. "I was a little scared when the countdown stopped," Reagan said. But it wasn't long before the clock was running again. As the timer hit 10, people began to count along with the NASA announcer. Six, five, four. People began to cheer. Three, two, one. The room burst into applause, the engines kicked in and people began to celebrate. The museum curators looked in awe. Children's mouths gaped at the sight. Their parents smiled, perhaps reminiscing about the time they were young and as amazed by a shuttle launch. "It was bittersweet," said Vicki Diesing, "I was worried that it wouldn't go off because of the weather, but when they stopped the countdown at 30 seconds, you are kind of holding your breath to see if it would really go off. It was good to be able to see that last one, but sad at the same time."
The recent suicidal violence in Pakistan coincides with a growing concern that President Obama might be tempted by the same folly that drove President Bush and massively increase the number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan -- by up to 65,000 if he were to listen to some of his military advisers. This is a deadly mistake that would drag the United States into a quagmire with even more catastrophic consequences than those it has faced in Iraq. The recent comment by White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel to CNN that "the Bush administration failed to ask critical questions about the war in Afghanistan" would be a key point of departure, but the question remains how critically Obama is willing to ask these questions. The fear that is now principally driving this tendency to escalate the war is that the Taliban and al Qaeda are about to declare victory over yet another superpower, and even expand their theater of operation, as the British army chief General Sir David Richards has suggested, into other parts of the world. This is a phantom fear, from a frightful figment of imagination in which the U.S. and European armies are now strategically invested and that has for almost a decade had a crippling effect on any measure of reason and sanity. There is no better way to combat this fearful fantasy than rethink what we have collectively come to understand by these two elusive terms "Taliban" and "al Qaeda." The only way to defeat these deceptive delusions is not to dispatch tens of thousands of innocent lives across the globe and endanger even more tens of thousands of innocent lives in Afghanistan and Pakistan, but to re-examine the terror that these terms have exercised over our mental faculties ever since the traumatic events of 9/11. What now passes as "Taliban" and "al Qaeda" fundamentally lack serious popular bases, mass infrastructural support or certainly any coherent ideology. In the history of the militant Islamist ideologies that we have known and examined in detail over the last 200 years, these are conceptual and political aberrations that will wither away almost as soon as they are taken off the radar of U.S. and NATO military operations and, by extension, away from the global limelight. The more you fight these delusions, the more powerful they become -- not as facts on the ground, but as figments of the military's imagination. Obama would commit perhaps the deadliest mistake and the biggest blunder of his presidency if he were not to listen to the wise counsel of Vice President Biden, who is reportedly against this massive increase of U.S. forces in Afghanistan. In a recent interview with Fareed Zakaria on CNN, President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan sought to dismantle the myth of the Taliban when he said, "there are thousands of them who are not ideologically our enemies. There are thousands of them who don't hate us or hate our way of life, who are not enemies to America, who are not enemies to the world, who just want to live in their own country in peace, who are frightened, are intimidated by bad behavior -- from the very beginning -- by some of the people that the coalition employed and by some of the people that the Afghan government had working on security issues. So, we have to bring those elements back to Afghanistan who are not part of al Qaeda, not part of terrorist networks, and who are accepting the Afghan Constitution and who are willing to come back." Yet another piece of evidence about the folly of the U.S. involvement in Afghanistan came in the resignation of Matthew Hoh, a Foreign Service officer and former Marine captain who resigned in protest over the Afghan war. "I believe that the people we are fighting there are fighting us because we are occupying them," Hoh told CNN last week. "Not for any ideological reasons, not because of any links to al Qaeda, not because of any fundamental hatred towards the West. The only reason they're fighting us is because we're occupying them." The regional consequences of not heeding what Vice President Biden, Rahm Emanuel, Hamid Karzai and Matthew Hoh are saying, implicitly or explicitly, will be even more catastrophic. Because of the fundamental flaws of the Obama administration's Afghan strategies so far, exacerbated by the incompetence of the Pakistani political and military apparatus, there is already a massive humanitarian crisis in the North-West Frontier Province. Any further increase of the U.S. military force in Afghanistan will Talibanize these border areas even further, and with them potentially the rest of the country. The Taliban has never been a unified or a monolithic entity, although for a short period in 2001, it had tenuous control of Afghanistan, and even less so has this thing called "al Qaeda." At its essence, what is called "Taliban" in Afghanistan is nothing more that a Pashtun tribal push for power, and as such it must be distinguished from what is called "Taliban" in the Federally Administered Tribal Area of Pakistan, which in turn must be separated from the Tehreek-e Nafaz-e Shariat-e Mohammadi in Swat, and all of those from the band of militant adventurists gathered around Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri, self-delusional to the point of calling themselves "al Qaeda" ("The Base"). The atrocities of 9/11 were the work of a criminal band of militant adventurers, on par with the network of support that someone like Timothy McVeigh could muster, and certainly not on a scale that could warrant the cross-continental mobilization of a superpower and its allies. The time for conventional military operations, as the Israelis ought to have learned from Hamas and Hezbollah, is long since over. You cannot fight and will not win a conventional war halfway around the globe against an amorphous enemy you can scarce clearly identify -- let alone pinpoint and attack, or target and eliminate. The U.S. Army and its allies are fighting a phantom war in Afghanistan, with massive civilian casualties and increasingly ineffective combat strategies. Obama should not yield to the pressure of the British and the hawks in Washington, D.C., and increase the size of the U.S. military. He and his civilian advisers are very wise to take time to examine this critical condition and not fall into the same trap that Bush did. Instead of increasing the size of the U.S. Army in Afghanistan, there must be a phasing out of the 100,000-plus U.S. and NATO forces that are already in Afghanistan and a corresponding phasing in of massive economic aid to rebuild a country the U.S. and its European allies (the British in particular), and before them the Soviets, are chiefly responsible for ruining. The Taliban and al Qaeda will dissipate like a shadowy shade of a nightmare when the might of the U.S. military stops actually creating what it wants to destroy, and once the limelight of world media is no longer cast upon the Afghan mountains. The Nobel Peace Prize to Obama could not have been timelier as a way to remind him why he was elected to the White House in the first place. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Hamid Dabashi.
(CNN)February 26, 2015 . Snow over the U.S. Southeast, drought over part of Brazil, drones over the French capital and excitement over a rare find: These are the headlines we're covering today on CNN Student News. Get a sense of how the lack of rainfall is affecting millions in Sao Paulo, and peer into a book that could show how The Bard's plays were performed in the years immediately following his passing. TRANSCRIPT . Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show. ROLL CALL . For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call! Thank you for using CNN Student News!
(CNN Student News) -- December 6, 2010 . Download PDF maps related to today's show: . • Afghanistan • South Korea • Albania • Israel . Transcript . THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. UNIDENTIFIED STUDENTS: Welcome to CNN Student News with Carl Azuz! CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Now that is how you get a show poppin'! Thank you gentlemen very much. Welcome, all of you, to a new week of CNN Student News! I'm Carl Azuz, and we thank all our viewers from all over the world for tuning in. First Up: Unemployment Report . AZUZ: The first Friday of every month, the U.S. government usually announces the current unemployment rate. Bad news: This past Friday's announcement came as a surprise; the rate went up to 9.8 percent. It had been 9.6 percent for several months. Some experts were predicting it would stay the same. More than 15 million Americans looking for work, not good news. But there are some people who are actually encouraged by the increase. The unemployment rate only counts people who are actively looking for jobs. So if the rate goes up, it could mean that Americans who'd stopped looking think they have a better chance of finding work, so they're back on the job hunt. Still, analysts say it is disappointing the overall job market hasn't gotten better. Afghanistan Visit . AZUZ: President Obama is back in Washington after a trip to Afghanistan. He made a surprise visit there on Friday, meeting with thousands of U.S. troops. This is his second trip to Afghanistan since he became president. Dan Lothian has more on the president's time in Afghanistan and why it didn't go exactly as planned. (BEGIN VIDEO) DAN LOTHIAN, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: It was a secret trip the White House says was in the works for more than a month; flying into Bagram Air Base for a little more than four hours to salute the men and women who are carrying out the administration's stepped-up strategy in Afghanistan. BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This part of the world is the center of a global effort where we are going to disrupt and dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies, and that's why you're here. LOTHIAN: But ahead of a mid-December review, what is being called a comprehensive assessment to possibly tweak the president's policy there, challenges remain. There's rampant corruption in the Afghan government, highlighted by leaked state department cables in which Ambassador Carl Eikenberry is said to be concerned about "how to fight corruption when key government officials are themselves corrupt." And then there is the continued Taliban threat. OBAMA: You're going on the offense. I'm tired of playing defense. Targeting their leaders. Pushing them out of their strongholds. LOTHIAN: Mr. Obama had planned on flying to Kabul to meet with President Hamid Karzai and visit U.S. embassy employees. But a storm rolled in with high winds, dust and low cloud cover, so his helicopter trip was canceled, and the Karzai meeting became a 15-minute phone call. The president did visit wounded troops at a base hospital, awarding five Purple Hearts, and met with members of the 101st Airborne Division who lost six members in a deadly attack earlier this week. OBAMA: There are going to be difficult days ahead. Progress comes at a high price. LOTHIAN: Thirteen hundred U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan since the war began. This year was especially deadly. The Obama administration plans to start withdrawing troops from Afghanistan in July 2011, and a stable, reliable government there is key to meeting that deadline. As for whether or not those WikiLeaks documents could cause more problems for the Obama administration, one top aide says that they've weathered these kinds of revelations in the past and that there's no secret about the challenges they're facing in Afghanistan, especially when it comes to corruption in the government there. Dan Lothian, CNN, the White House. (END VIDEO) Tax Vote in Senate . AZUZ: Moving to the legislative branch of U.S. government and the debate over some tax cuts we've been talking about recently. These are cuts that were made under President George W. Bush. They are set to expire. If they do, it means Americans' taxes will go up. Everyone seems to be in favor of extending the cuts for families who make less than $250,000 a year. The debate is over extending those tax cuts for families that make more money than that. Saturday, the U.S. Senate voted not to extend the cuts for anyone, but Democratic and Republican leaders are hopeful they they can still work out a compromise. Shoutout . TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr. Study's social studies classes at Shallotte Middle School in Shallotte, North Carolina! Which of these words means a fee that countries have to pay when they import something? Is it: A) Default, B) Inflation, C) Subsidy or D) Tariff? You've got three seconds -- GO! The fee or tax on products that are imported is called a tariff. That's your answer and that's your Shoutout! Trade with South Korea . AZUZ: A new deal between the U.S. and South Korea would get rid of a lot of tariffs. President Obama announced the plan on Saturday. Over the next five years, it would eliminate 95 percent of the tariffs on industrial and consumer products that South Korea imports from the United States. The president says this agreement will mean billions of dollars in American exports and support 70,000 American jobs. Other folks don't see it that way. In fact, they argue that this trade agreement will actually cost U.S. jobs. The president had hoped to finalize the deal with South Korea when he was in that country last month. There were some disagreements about specific details that caused the delay. Albania Flooding . AZUZ: Albania is a country in southeastern Europe. It's a little smaller than the U.S. state of Maryland, and it's home to about 3 million people. 12,000 of them have had to leave their homes because of this: massive flooding caused by severe rain. You can see some of the damage in these photos sent in by an iReporter. Huge areas of land are underwater. Thousands of homes have flooded. Officials have declared a state of emergency, and troops and police are helping out in the rescue efforts. Israel Wildfire . AZUZ: Israel's cabinet has promised speedy relief to victims of a deadly wildfire in that country. The prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, says he wants the people who were affected to be able to go back to their homes or to alternative housing within days. The fire broke out on Thursday. It's killed at least 40 people and injured at least 17 others. As of Sunday, it was still burning in a few places, but authorities said the major sources had been extinguished. Israel is getting help from other countries, including the U.S., Egypt and Jordan. And Palestinians -- a group that's often at odds with Israel -- are helping out here too. Sound Check . TRENT MITCHELL, SHORECREST HIGH SCHOOL VIDEO TEACHER: You will see the kids walking, you know, kind of looking down and texting away, when there's 50 kids around them they could be talking to. NICHOLI WYTOVICZ, SHORECREST HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT: I Facebook after I get home from school, and then I do my homework, and then I Facebook some more. MARA HARRIS, SHORECREST HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR: I'm not on it 24/7, but I could cut back. I know my mom would love it. Social Experiment . AZUZ: All right, if that sounds familiar, we're all guilty of this at some point or other. As you can see from our stack of smartphones and cell phones right here, technology and social networking are everywhere. But for one week, there's a school district in Washington state that's going unplugged as part of a social experiment. And this is what we mean by unplugged: More than 400 students, teachers and staff have promised to give up texting, Twitter, Facebook and cell phones! The teacher who came up with the idea says people are losing the ability to have face-to-face communication. Students have been promoting the experiment on Facebook. Go figure. All of it starts today. The students who are taking part are on the honor system, but they've given their cell numbers to teachers who will use "spies" to try and test them. Blog Report . AZUZ: We're covering this on our blog today; you probably guessed that already. But about Friday's blog on a high school football player who got flagged after praying in the end zone, Rebecca says she would not stop pointing to the sky after scoring. She would let go of the ball first, though, since that's supposedly what triggered the flag. Laurie's class agreed with dropping the ball first, writing that "people of faith should be able to show it, but they still have to follow rules." Salicia, like several of you, talked about the First Amendment and said "the player had every right to say a prayer." Look at this: 93 percent of you thought Ronnie Hastie should not have been penalized for what he did. Jackson says it's offensive on the ref's part because it's like he's saying "no following religion on a football field." Ryan says "the player wasn't celebrating; he was thanking God. As a football player myself, they should get rid of that rule altogether." Quick reminder for you: We only publish comments with first names; we only read first names on the show. Before We Go . AZUZ: All right, today's Before We Go segment is about someone who's just a giant baby. A giant panda baby. Well, he's kinda cute now. He only weighs about 2 pounds. Just wait 'til he's full-grown and weighs 200 pounds! This little guy is just a month old. We'd like to tell you his name, but he won't get that until he's 100 days old. That's a tradition in China, where pandas are from. This check-up was to make sure he's healthy, in good shape, and eating well. Goodbye . AZUZ: You know, all the bear essentials. That about cub-bers it for today's program. We hope you have a great day. For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.
While the nation waits to see whether the 1965 Voting Rights Act will be dismantled by the U.S. Supreme Court, it is worth reviewing how the act affected one group that had long opposed black suffrage: Southern white politicians . Before 1965, many white officeholders helped build their career by preventing blacks from voting. They could easily ignore black citizens.  In the very first primary election after passage of the Voting Rights Act, that began to change. In Alabama in 1966, Lurleen Wallace was standing in for her husband, George Wallace, who was unable to run again because of term limits. She faced a challenge from Attorney General Richmond Flowers, the first Democrat to seek black votes. If elected, he promised to remove the Confederate flag that flew atop the State Capitol and delete the words "White Supremacy" from the party emblem. Flowers campaigned mostly in black communities and joined in singing "We Shall Overcome." In return, he received the support of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and Alabama's two largest black political groups, the Confederation of Alabama Political Organizations and the Alabama Democratic Conference, groups shunned by white candidates. Other candidates, once intensely racist, surprisingly followed Flowers' lead. Al Lingo -- head of Alabama's State Troopers and one of the architects of Bloody Sunday, the assault on Selma-to-Mongomery marchers on March 7, 1965, by state troopers and deputies -- sought black votes in his race for Jefferson County sheriff. "I want the support of everybody, white or colored," he said. As for Bloody Sunday, he claimed that he had wanted to let the marchers proceed, but the governor overruled him, making him the "scapegoat" for what occurred. If elected, he promised that the sheriff's office would include black deputies. Even more startling was the behavior of Jim Clark, Sheriff of Dallas County, who was seeking re-election. Just the year before, Clark had treated African-Americans seeking the right to vote in Selma with unparalleled savagery and led the Bloody Sunday assault. Now he attempted to woo black voters. On April 24, he invited them to join him at a picnic where beer and barbecue were served. Turnout was disappointing. "A man can't beat us in 1964 and 1965 and expect us to vote for him in 1966," noted one black leader. Because black votes now counted, reporters covering the campaign noted that the n-word, once a political staple, had disappeared. George Wallace, accustomed to saying "Nigra," now struggled to remember that it should be pronounced "Negro." While Lurleen Wallace won an overwhelming victory on Election Day, Lingo received less than one-tenth of the number of votes cast for his opponent. Clark, facing defeat, attempted to steal his election, but he was blocked by Assistant Attorney General John Doar, who took him to court in the first lawsuit brought under the Voting Rights Act. Clark lost in court, ending his long reign of terror in Alabama. The 1966 Alabama primary was a preview of what was to come. In the years that followed, George Wallace apologized for his earlier racist views and sought the support of black voters. But perhaps more important -- and more striking -- was the evolution of South Carolina's Strom Thurmond, who had opposed the Voting Rights Act in 1965 and its renewal in 1970 and 1975. In 1982, civil rights activists worried that Thurmond would use his power as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee to kill the act's reauthorization. Thurmond's opposition to integration went back decades. In 1948, Harry Truman's civil rights programs had led Thurmond to bolt the Democratic National Convention and run for president as a "Dixiecrat." As a senator, Thurmond launched a historic filibuster against the 1957 Civil Rights Act and denounced the 1964 Civil Rights Act as "vicious." That same year Thurmond became a Republican and supported Barry Goldwater for president, beginning the political transformation of the South from staunchly Democratic to reliably Republican. By 1982, 30% of the voters in Thurmond's state were black, leaving the senator little choice but to vote for the act. In doing so, he said that he did not want to fall victim to "the common perception that a vote against the bill indicates opposition to the right to vote and, indeed, opposition to the group of citizens who are protected under the Voting Rights Act." Or, as he earlier told a racist colleague who lost a campaign for governor of South Carolina, "we can't win elections any more by cussin' Nigras." The Voting Rights Act had succeeded in doing what it was created to do: create millions of new black voters, and -- less understood -- free white Southern politicians from always opposing black gains. There is no better example of democracy in action. In 2006, not a single senator from a state covered by the Voting Rights Act voted against its renewal. Should the Supreme Court now significantly weaken the protection of minority voting that the act provides, we may well return to a time when "cussin' Nigras" is again a politically acceptable strategy.
Ferguson, Missouri (CNN)Cathy and Jerome Jenkins have been running businesses in the St. Louis area for more than two decades. They tried selling neckties, then found success marketing a fabric chemical. But it's the restaurant in downtown Ferguson, Cathy's Kitchen, that is their love. Monday night brought heartbreak. For so many reasons. As a black family, the Jenkinses understood the rage that seethed and then exploded on the streets of Ferguson after a grand jury decided not to indict Officer Darren Wilson, who is white, in the death of black teenager Michael Brown. Protesters spilled onto South Florissant Road and met a line of riot police just outside Cathy's Kitchen. Things got ugly after police warned the crowds to get off the streets and then fired tear gas. Many businesses were vandalized and looted. Some were razed by fire. "I understand there is not a proper regard for African-American life in this country," said Cathy Jenkins, shivering in the cold by the shattered window in her restaurant Tuesday. If Wilson had been indicted, she is sure life would have moved on without blemish. Instead, she and her husband found themselves not being able to open for business. She knew from a text she received that her eatery had been vandalized during the protests. But neither she nor her husband knew how they would find their beloved business. It was, after all, right next door to the Ferguson Police Department. Follow the latest news on CNN.com's Live Blog . Cathy's Kitchen was a labor of love, inspired by a family vacation several years ago. Jerome Jenkins was a huge fan of National Lampoon's "Vacation," the movie series starring Chevy Chase. So he copied the Griswolds, put his wife and three kids in an RV and drove from state to state. There's a map in the restaurant of all the places they visited. Chicago, Las Vegas, New Orleans, Memphis. In each place, Cathy Jenkins picked up local flavors and spices. The menu at Cathy's Kitchen reflects some of the dishes she savored on that vacation. The diner-style eatery has checkerboard floors and red walls. The two wall-mounted televisions are always set to The Cooking Channel and the Food Network. And the sound of soul is always playing on the stereo. Aretha, Stevie, Otis and Marvin. Customers sing along. That is, when they're not busy eating. There's Memphis-style gumbo, New Orleans Po' Boys and Chicago hot dogs. Cathy Jenkins likes to write the special of the day with chalk on the black-board table tops. Pulled pork or turkey with gravy. Drinks are $2.49. Free refills. No wonder the place is packed at lunchtime. On Monday, the Jenkinses closed early, around 3 p.m., when they saw protesters gathering across the street. They put up a sign on their front door: "Closed Until Further Notice!" The following morning, Cathy's Kitchen sat dark and silent. And broken. 'Black lives matter' The Jenkinses knew their restaurant was not so badly damaged. They'd seen video of protesters locking arms in front of the place to protect it from vandals. "I wish I knew who they were," said Jerome Jenkins, "because I really would like to thank them." The Jenkinses planned to wake up early, rustle up relatives and be there by 8 to begin cleaning up. But by the time they arrived, people were already picking up the shards of glass from the window that was shattered. They weren't members of the National Guard. Or any federal disaster agency. They were her customers, loyal to her on a day of tragedy. "I am overwhelmed," she said. But this was the Ferguson she knew. A Ferguson that was about diversity and community. She said she had to believe the grand jury made the right decision. But she and her husband were both deeply disappointed that some protesters turned violent and that authorities failed to protect their city. "I thought when trouble erupted, the National Guard would be here. Then not to see a single military truck. ... That's troubling." Jerome Jenkins said authorities had four months to "get this right." He didn't understand why the decision was announced at night, why the police didn't react right away and why the military was not sent in after a state of emergency had been declared many days before. Opinion: America, we have a problem . "I hate what I have seen on West Florissant," he said, referring to the main thoroughfare that intersects with the road where Brown was shot dead. It was the scene of nearly two weeks of protests, some violent, in the wake of the killing. After word spread that Wilson would not be indicted, protesters clashed with riot police in Ferguson. Many businesses had their doors and windows smashed in. Some were looted and set ablaze. Obama: 'No sympathy' for violence in Ferguson . "Nobody was there to protect them," Jerome Jenkins said. "To the African-American community, that is the greatest form of racism. You don't protect and serve. You allow 20 to 30 criminals to come into our community and burn it down." He said the images of Ferguson mistakenly portray a community not interested in bettering itself, when instead rogue elements are responsible for the violence. "A criminal is a criminal," he said. "Poverty brings crime, and you will see that where you go in the world." Jenkins said he is not a man who would normally put his face in front of a television camera. "But it's worth telling the world, 'Listen, it wasn't us as residents who dropped the ball.' " After the cleanup Tuesday, the Jenkinses hope to leave for Indiana, where they both grew up, to enjoy Thanksgiving with family and friends. And to heal. They don't know what will happen in the next few nights, whether there will be more trouble. They hope to hang the "open" sign on the door again very soon. Perhaps even as early as Monday. Complete coverage of what's happening in Ferguson .
Pope Francis' trip to South Korea memorialized the atrocities of the last century. On the way home, the Pope became embroiled in controversy about a conflict raging in the current one. During a lengthy discussion, Francis remarked on the spread of cruelty and torture before being asked about violence against religious minorities in Iraq, and whether he approved of the U.S. bombing campaign aimed at stopping the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS. With what seemed careful deliberation, Pope Francis said: "In these cases where there is an unjust aggression, I can only say this: It is licit to stop the unjust aggressor. I underline the verb: stop. I do not say bomb, make war, I say stop by some means. With what means can they be stopped? These have to be evaluated. To stop the unjust aggressor is licit." This response -- and the reaction to it -- says much about the complexity of running an organization that is at once modern and ancient, religious and political, international and parochial. But what exactly did he mean? Was he, as a few excitable writers suggested, calling for a new crusade? Certainly, much of the media response quickly fixated on what seemed to be approval for a military campaign and how a Pope -- the leader of the Catholic Church -- was seemingly sanctioning war against an Islamic caliphate. Actually, he wasn't. Crusading, as defined by most historians, generally involved taking religious vows to head east and assist in military expeditions against Islamic powers in exchange for spiritual rewards (redemption from sin). Historians have identified major campaigns as the First, Second, Third, etc. Crusades. In response to these conquests, the local Islamic powers leveraged the idea of jihad to rally disparate Muslim groups together. Yet although the Crusades featured not just plenty of violence but also peaceful cross-cultural exchange, they aren't an example Francis wants to invoke. In fact, he isn't saying that anyone should take vows and go off to fight. Instead, Francis is making the point that taking action to stop evil is just. This idea of justified violence, even from Catholics, chiefly emerged from the writing of St. Augustine (354-430). As Matthew Gabriele, associate professor of medieval studies at Virginia Tech, writes: "Augustine argued that war was never desirable but was sometimes necessary. We must protect those who suffer from unjust aggression. If that could be accomplished without war, so much the better, but force could be used by legitimate authorities as a last resort. The end goal, however, was always -- and simply -- lasting peace." That's the context for understanding the ancient part of Francis' response. The modern context emerged in how he concluded his answer. "One nation alone cannot judge how to stop an unjust aggressor," Francis said. "After the Second World War there was the idea of the United Nations. It is there that this should be discussed. Is there an unjust aggressor? It would seem there is. How do we stop him? Only that, nothing more." Such pursuit of multiple perspectives to ward off bias is also Augustinian. In "On Christian Doctrine," St. Augustine argued that reading the Bible required special training because though the book contains all the truths of the universe, humans (flawed creatures that we are) are far too likely to assume that whatever we think is good is also what God thinks is good. To counteract this, St. Augustine prescribed a strict intellectual diet of the best liberal arts and science education the late Roman world could provide. Multiple perspectives help us discern what is truly just from what might just be convenient. In a way, that's what Francis is doing with his words, too. He's concerned that any individual leader or nation is far too likely to assume that someone with whom they disagree is unjust, and thus the principles of stopping unjust action instead becomes a tool for warmongering. Instead, he argues, we should try to find consensus before acting, collectively, to put an end to atrocity. "We must also have memory," Francis said. "How many times under this excuse of stopping an unjust aggressor the powers (that intervened) have taken control of peoples, and have made a true war of conquest." History teaches us all about the dangers of mission creep. And it also makes clear that when two sides engage in the rhetoric of religious war, things can deteriorate rapidly. Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein, for example, both routinely railed against the West as "crusaders," an accusation that gained traction in the Islamic world after President George W. Bush called for "this crusade, this war on terrorism" after 9/11. Francis doesn't want to make a similar mistake. Indeed, while he named himself after a medieval saint who lived during the era of the Crusades, that St. Francis didn't actually go to war. Instead he went on mission, seeking (at least as we remember it today) dialogue and understanding. And that's certainly been Pope Francis' path so far. But when there is great suffering in the world, as is being inflicted on religious and ethnic minorities in areas controlled by ISIS, then Francis says one must act, while also drawing on both the ancient idea of justified war and the modern concept of international cooperation. The question, of course, is whether in a digital age -- when misinformation and misunderstanding spreads so fast -- Pope Francis can somehow find true harmony between old and new. His ability to do so will determine the lessons his papacy ultimately hands down for posterity.
Technology has been changing the way we access, enjoy and discuss our entertainment. From smartphones and tablets with streaming movies to video game consoles offering TV shows alongside game play, consumers have increasingly become accustomed to their entertainment colliding and intertwining in new and interesting ways. In an effort to expand that world, the creators of "Defiance" are banking on the combined power of an online third-person shooter video game and a weekly science fiction television series to keep fans hooked and actively involved in the franchise. Trion Games and SyFy Network joined forces five years ago to create "a truly unique entertainment experience," according to Nathan Richardsson, VP of development for Trion and executive producer of "Defiance." The "Defiance" world is set in the year 2046 on a transformed Earth ravaged by conflict and alien attacks. Mutants, evil alien races and robots terrorize what's left of civilization and those who have the wealth and power have fled to Antarctica -- the last refuge for those who want to live comfortably. The game takes place in the San Francisco area while the TV series is set in St. Louis, or what used to be St. Louis before alien terraforming technology destroyed most of the city. The town is now called Defiance, with a population of about 6,000 people of different races. Creators say the geographic split of the story was necessary so each property could stand on its own. Mark Stern, president of original content at SyFy, said a gaming world where hundreds of players are completing missions wouldn't be a good environment for TV storytelling. "We really did need to keep them distinct and not worry about what we could and couldn't do," Stern said. "We didn't want lots of people running up and down our streets (in St. Louis) shooting everything. It was going to be very, very hard to keep those things separate in that very specific way." That's not to say the show and the game are completely separate. Events that happen in the game will refer to, and possibly affect, things in the TV series and vice versa. Rob Hill, senior producer at Trion, points out the two main characters from the show, Joshua Nolan and Irisa, actually appear in the game before they show up in the series and go on missions with the player. "Those two characters leave the game," Hill said. "They drive away from the player having gotten an object the player helped them get and then drive into the television show. (They) end up using that object, which really helps the solution to the pilot (episode)." The game, which is available on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles as well as Windows-based computers, launched two weeks before the SyFy series premier to give fans of the "Defiance" universe a taste of what was to come in the show. However, you don't have to watch the show to understand the game -- and vice versa. Hill said the game and the show can stand alone, but the idea of expanding the world through different outlets at the same time was something they felt would enhance the viewer's, or player's, enjoyment of the franchise. "You'll be missing a lot of background of what maybe happens from either the show or the game, he said. "It won't be something you are confused by. It won't be 'Why did that just happen?' (But) if you play the game and are watching the show, you might have an inner knowledge that other people won't have about the show." While both teams were telling a story in the same universe, Stern said the creative process was like digging a tunnel through opposite sides of a mountain to meet in the center. "They're (Trion) building this deep, rich world and we were trying to create interesting character drama," Stern said. "That was a great benefit to us to have a company working 24 hours a day building out this detail, like a 300-page world Bible, that we could tap when it did become time for us to worry about (questions like) 'What color are the trees?' 'What do the buildings exactly look like?' " Hill agreed, saying Trion pushed SyFy to think about larger details earlier when the show producers wanted to work in character details. "We need to define a universe early because our entire game is computer-generated graphics and they take a long time to build. They usually think about what the universe looks like, what it sounds like, and they usually figure that out after they've got an initial script written," he said. While some of the discussion about story development, environments and the overall reach of "Defiance" got heated, the idea of making something brand new kept both sides focused. Stern said there was genuine enthusiasm on both sides to make it work, but the pressure was intense. "There's so much scrutiny because of what it is," he said. "There's also this real responsibility feel that, if this doesn't work, you've condemned the idea in general, which is not necessarily fair." Are science fiction and gaming fans ready for this type of multilayered entertainment? The crossover audience between those two genres seems to be a natural and large one. "(The SyFy show) is only on for an hour a week and 13 episodes a season, and then people have to wait for the next season," Hill points out. "The fan base really gets into the universe behind these television shows and they don't get to live in it outside of those 13 episodes. We give them the opportunity to come into the game and live in the universe 24/7 if they want to." "Defiance" (the game) is available now for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Windows PC. It is an online game so it does require an Internet connection to play at all times. It is rated M for Mature due to blood, drug references, sexual themes, strong language, and violence. "Defiance" (the show) premiered April 15 on the SyFy channel and will run weekly until July 8.
Egypt's foreign minister resigned Saturday, part of a reshuffling of Egypt's government in the face of continued demonstrations calling for reforms. Prime Minister Esam Sharaf accepted the submitted resignation of Mohamed el-Orabi, who had been in office for less than a month, according to foreign ministry spokesman Menha Bakhoum. The move came amid continued change in Egypt's government, with Sharaf announcing Saturday that Hazem Al-Beblawy and Ali Al-Selmy had been appointed as deputy prime ministers. Beblawy will oversee economy-related matters while Selmy will head "the political development and the democratic transition," according to a release on the Egyptian cabinet's website. These developments come as public pressure has intensified in recent weeks. Some Egyptians are claiming that the reforms instituted since President Hosni Mubarak stepped down February 11 are not significant enough. Several people working within the current government have been criticized for allegedly being too close to the former leader and those who helped suppress protests last winter. Thousands of disgruntled pro-democracy activists have again descended on Cairo's Tahrir Square, setting up tents in the iconic roundabout that was the hub of the uprising earlier this year. The exact circumstances surrounding Orabi's resignation are unknown, though he had a long history of government service in Mubarak's government. A former deputy foreign minister for foreign affairs, he became foreign minister in June in place of Nabil Elaraby. Elaraby was elected in May to head the 22-member Arab League after Amre Moussa decided to be a candidate in the next presidential elections in Egypt. Orabi served in the Egyptian Army before he joined the foreign service in 1976. He was deputy ambassador in Tel Aviv, Israel, from 1994 to 1998 and has worked in Kuwait, London and Washington. He held the position of ambassador to Germany from 2001 to 2008. There was no immediate word on who might succeed Orabi as foreign minister. The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces and Sharaf's caretaker cabinet have been in charge of the country since Mubarak's ouster, a time that has been marked by significant, evolving changes in Egypt's government. Journalist Mohamed Fadel Fahmy contributed to this report.
Some people living in Atlanta have found a way to get goods and services without spending their hard-earned cash. Misty Love discusses YOUME options with A.J. Butler and Nick Viola. Once a week, this group that calls itself the YOUMEs gather around a campfire in Dr. David Epstein's backyard to offer what they have and to find out who within their community might have something they want. Each person takes a turn offering assets and announcing needs. Robin, an artist and interior designer, is looking for someone to refinish her hardwood floors. The next person up, Jo-Jo, a Pilates instructor who grew up on a boat, knows all about hardwood floors and can help Robin. A connection is made.  Watch them make their pitch » . Cameron, an acupuncturist, is looking for someone to fix his bike. A.J. Butler, a student, says he likes working on bikes and, although he has never seen an acupuncturist, will probably exchange time with Cameron -- another connection. The group is part of a growing national trend of communities looking for low-impact, locally rooted solutions in this challenging economy. Along with saving money, they're meeting neighbors, learning what they have to offer and making connections that they say will benefit themselves and their community, today and in the future. The YOUMEs are still working on guidelines, such as whether a premium should be placed on highly developed skills or arduous tasks. "It's really about the two people who are making the arrangement, so if you have a really dirty job that takes six hours, maybe the other person would offer 10 hours of gardening," Epstein said. There are hundreds of barter networks set up across the country. Many use barter credits as currency, so a plumber who needs to have a cavity filled doesn't need to search for a dentist's office with plumbing problems to make a deal. He can fix a leaky pipe for one member of a network and use the credits he earned for that job at any other. Michael Krane, president of Green Apple Barter Services in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, says his company has brokered everything from breast implants to college tuition to a horse. Web sites that put Americans in touch with like-minded people who are willing to trade everything under the sun have also seen a boost in traffic. SwapThing, which lists almost 3.5 million "things" available for trade, reports that its customers are bartering for different reasons than before. Although there is an online element to YOUME group, what sets it apart from other barter groups is the personal connection made at the weekly meetings. "There's a scarcity of money and jobs, but we still have ourselves, our skills and our relationships. And we know that if we offer those, we'll get something back," Epstein said. "Yes, this sort of thing is also happening on the Internet, but when it's supported by a personal connection, it makes for a more valuable process." Jeanne St. Romain agreed. "I like the personal aspect. I'm on my computer all day. You can't connect in the same way online." Butler sees the meetings as an alternative to social networking sites. "Facebook is fine, but a lot of the people I'm in contact with on Facebook are very similar to me in terms of age or stage in life. Jeanne and I would never meet on Facebook," Butler said, "but here we are, talking about bike repair and marketing." This life-enriching aspect is key, according to Epstein. "We're hoarding our money and protecting it for utilities and mortgages and those types of expenses, but in doing so, we're depriving ourselves. Here, we're able to save our money for those things that require money and enrich our lives in the process." Although life enrichment is a benefit for many, Misty Love, who's unemployed, needs help with more basic needs. "I can do manual labor, video editing, massage. I'm looking for food. I would like a place to live, rides around town, basic necessities," she said. For group founder David Frane, the process is about finding a sustainable way of life without having to sacrifice too much. "We all know how to be sustainable; we give up everything. But it's not a very palatable way to go through life. I don't want to live like a monk and not enjoy the things we enjoyed growing up." But he also believes that it strengthens the community. "In the normal process of purchasing things, we really lose track of the money once it's out of our hands. What we're trying to do here is spend our resources in ways that benefit our community," Frane said.
The wail of sirens and the firing of tear gas canisters echoed through the streets of the Tunisian capital, Tunis, for a second day Thursday, as the political turmoil triggered by the assassination of an opposition leader continued to spur unrest. Chokri Belaid was shot dead outside his home Wednesday morning, throwing the country into confusion and prompting angry protests. The unrest calmed overnight but broke out anew Thursday, as young protesters threw rocks at security forces on a central Tunis boulevard. Police responded with tear gas, and officers riding double on motorcycles chased demonstrators. Other plainclothes police officers went door to door, looking for people who had been on the streets. As soon as the protestors would head back to the street, they would be met by more tear gas. This cat-and-mouse lasted all day, but the protesters refused to leave. Late Wednesday, Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali, head of the moderate religious party Ennahda, sacked his Cabinet and called for new elections, leaving himself at the head of a caretaker government. However, a top Ennahda party official said Thursday that Jebali's call to dissolve the Cabinet and offer up a new technocratic government is "not binding." Tunisia's president: 'The extremists are a minority of a minority' Ennahda executive bureau member Abdel Hamid Jlassi said party officials were meeting to discuss whether to accept the dissolution. Jebali's move came soon after violent clashes broke out in front of the Interior Ministry in Tunis, where police used tear gas to disperse protesters angered by the assassination of Belaid. One police officer died after he tackled looters amid the disturbances Wednesday, Tunisia's state-run news agency TAP quoted an interior ministry official as saying. Protesters also rallied elsewhere Wednesday, including the central town of Sidi Bouzid, the birthplace of the revolution that toppled former President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali two years ago. The French Embassy in Tunisia said all French-run schools in the North African country would be closed on Friday and Saturday. Belaid's family told local media his funeral would be held Friday, according to TAP. Read more: Who will win battle for the new Tunisia? Belaid routinely received death threats for his outspoken criticism of Tunisia's moderate Islamist-led government. He talked about the bullying on his frequent television appearances but said he didn't fear for his life. Belaid had criticized the government, saying it was not doing enough to take on hardline Salafists. No one has claimed responsibility for the attack. Some speculate an extremist Salafist group may have been behind it. Support for Belaid went beyond his own party, the secular-leftist Democratic Patriots. He was the voice of a large coalition of secular opposition parties known as the Popular Front and had a reputation for decrying violence. Amna Guellali, of the rights group Human Rights Watch, said the government bears some responsibility for his death because of its "laxity" in failing to respond to a climate of rising political violence. "We warned the government that these incidents of violence should be investigated thoroughly and that people who have perpetrated these acts should be punished ... but we haven't heard anything back," she told CNN in Tunis. The climate of intimidation included calls by preachers in some mosques in July for the killing of certain Tunisian political figures and personalities, including Chokri Belaid, she said. "We didn't see the government reacting to these calls of clear incitement to murder," she said. "A government has to protect its citizens ... especially if there are clear threats against this person." Jebali, who condemned Belaid's killing, urged the Tunisian people not to rush to conclusions but to await the results of investigations by judicial authorities, TAP reported. Are you there? Send us your photos and videos, but please stay safe. "Belaid was killed, but the real target behind the assassination is the Tunisian revolution as a whole, "Jebali said of his political adversary. "He represented the true values of dialogue, respecting and embracing others in rejecting violence. This is a political assassination." Belaid's brother, Abdelmajid Belaid, blamed Jebali's party for the killing, and angry protesters stormed Ennahda offices Wednesday. Interior Minister Ali al-Areed, who denied any involvement by his party, vowed to track down the killers and joined the chorus of moral indignation, calling Belaid's assassination "an attack on all Tunisians." At the same time, he asked that protests remain peaceful. "We do not want the country to fall into chaos," he said on Tunisian state TV. Lise Storm, a senior lecturer in Middle East Politics at the University of Exeter in England, warned against overplaying the significance of Belaid's death in the long term and said the current protests are in part driven by more general discontent. While Belaid was a well-known figure, his party is small and has no real political platform other than opposition to Ennahda, she said. Although it remains unclear who might have been behind his murder, it is highly unlikely that Ennahda played a role, as some have alleged, she said. The party is moderately Islamist and is made up of seasoned politicians who have waited a long time to be able to govern, she said. Storm suggested that any move to dissolve the current elected government would be counterproductive, since a unity government would find it difficult to reach consensus on reforms. Tunisia has made great progress toward democracy in the past two years, she pointed out, with presidential elections expected after the new constitution is approved, likely later this year. Popular discontent is focused on the issue of jobs and speedier reform of the police and other institutions, particularly in places such as Sidi Bouzid, which were at the center of past political protests, she added. Women's Minister Sihem Badi told CNN that it was important that Tunisians remain united at this difficult time. People are worried that the upheaval may lead to a return to the situation as it was before the Arab Spring revolution, said Badi, a member of the Congress for the Republic party. To prevent that from happening, it is vital that Tunisia remains committed to the process begun two years ago, she said, with the country's political parties, media and civil society coming together to safeguard the freedoms and democratic progress won by the people. Read more: How a fruit seller caused revolution in Tunisia . "We must protect our revolution," she said. "We need time, we need patience, we need the agreement of many partners -- we can't work alone." Badi said the violent protests that broke out Wednesday were a natural response to the shocking death of Belaid. But, she said, such clashes are unusual in Tunisia and she does not expect them to continue. "We have a very difficult period now, but it's important to prepare good conditions for future elections," she said, including agreement on a new constitution. Belaid was shot by an unknown gunman as he left his home in a quiet Tunis suburb for work Wednesday morning, according to a witness. The attack was "a clear message to Tunisians ... shut up, or we kill you," Abdelmajid Belaid said. He said his brother had been "receiving threats of murder for a long time," including a text message Tuesday. And Chokri Belaid's widow, Basma, told Tunisian state TV: "We are damned. The political struggle is damned in Tunisia. Chokri Belaid sacrificed his soul."
It has all the trappings of a trashy romance novel: a flamboyant billionaire media tycoon enthralled by a leggy Moroccan exotic dancer nicknamed "Ruby Heartbreaker." But this is real life, and the sex scandal involving former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and the dancer, Karima El Mahroug, has been a tabloid headline writer's dream. Read more: Berlusconi's 'bunga bunga' women testify at his trial . The now-76-year-old Berlusconi is accused of having sex 13 times with El Mahroug in 2010 when she was 17, which normally wouldn't be a problem since the age of consent in Italy is 14. But sex with a prostitute under 18 is a crime there. El Mahroug was expected to take the stand Monday in Berlusconi's trial on charges that he hired her for sex and later tried to pull strings to get her out of jail when she was accused of theft. But while Berlusconi has said that both allegations are attempts to smear him, members of his defense team declined to question El Mahroug when she appeared in court Monday, and they told her she could leave. After El Mahroug left the courtroom, the prosecutor asked the court to use her testimony from the investigation period as evidence instead. Berlusconi lawyer Nicolo Ghedini told reporters that his team decided not to interrogate El Mahroug because of worries that any responses or debate in court could cause tension during the hotly contested campaign leading up to Italy's national elections next month. Read more: Berlusconi under fire for controversial comments about Italy . The performer, who has since appeared scantily clad in photographs across the country, told the Italian news channel Sky TG24 about two years ago that she had lied about her age before meeting Berlusconi for a dinner party at his private residence near Milan. "He knew that I was 24 years old because I told everyone that I was 24 years old," El Mahroug said. "I didn't want people to know that I was a minor." It was during that first encounter on Valentine's Day in 2010 that she said she received 7,000 euros (about $9,375) after a friend informed Berlusconi that she needed help. Berlusconi: Italy's most colorful, controversial public figure . Both have denied allegations of having sex. "Absolutely no," El Mahroug said. "I just arrived in Milan, and it was a little difficult living there," and Berlusconi gave her the money to help support herself financially, she said. The friend "spoke with (Berlusconi) and explained my situation, my story, my family situation," she said. "And he helped me." Investigators say they later questioned the dancer's former roommate, who claimed El Mahroug had confided in her, describing the details of her sexual relationship with the Italian premier. 'Bunga bunga' parties . In addition to the charges against Berlusconi, three of his associates are accused of selecting up to 33 young women, including El Mahroug, to attend so-called bunga bunga parties at Berlusconi's house, where the women would perform erotic dances before the prime minister chose one to spend the night with. Read more: Prosecutors: Businessman got women for Berlusconi . Berlusconi, who served three times as Italy's prime minister, laughed off the allegations in a 2011 interview with a leading Italian newspaper. "I'm 75, and even if I'm a bit mischievous, 33 girls in two months is too much even for someone who is 30," the daily La Repubblica quoted him as saying. Just to keep things interesting, last month, on an Italian talk show, the former prime minister announced plans to marry a television showgirl-turned-politician a half-century younger. Francesca Pascale, 27, is "a girl who is beautiful on the outside, but even more beautiful on the inside," Berlusconi said. Planning a comeback . In recent months, Berlusconi has been plotting his political resurrection, agreeing to an electoral pact with the right-wing Northern League. It's a development that could lead to no outright winner in the country's parliamentary elections in February. Opinion: What does Silvio's return mean for Italy? Berlusconi's defense team asked the court Monday to suspend the trial until after the election because Berlusconi is busy with the campaign and is not able to attend. The prosecutor called the request politically motivated. The latest opinion polls show Berlusconi's party and the Northern League gaining ground on the center-left coalition, but still trailing. He said that in the event of their victory he could be willing to serve as finance minister, and he proposed Angelino Alfano, his party secretary, as prime minister. However, Berlusconi could conceivably become prime minister for a fourth time. The next hearing in the case is scheduled for January 21. Then, the judge will announce his decision on the defense's request to call more witnesses, including two international celebrities: American actor George Clooney and Portuguese soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo. Berlusconi, a billionaire media tycoon, has survived scandal before. He has been accused of embezzlement, fraud and bribery over his career, but a tax evasion case marked the first time he was convicted of an offense. In October, a Milan court sentenced Berlusconi to four years in prison for tax evasion. However, under the Italian legal system, he and his fellow defendants have the right to appeal their sentence twice, in the appeals court and a higher court. Also, because the case dates to July 2006, the statute of limitations will expire this year, meaning there is a good chance none of the defendants will serve any prison time. CNN's Hada Messia and Livia Borghese contributed to this report from Rome; Mark Morgenstein updated it from Atlanta.
The 10 Haitian students from Sts. Joachim and Anne's School in New York's Queens Village boarded the yellow school bus thinking they were headed to the library on a special school trip. When they got off, however, it wasn't at a library but at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx. It was the beginning of a day full of surprises. The children, ages 7 to 13, are survivors of the catastrophic Haitian earthquake of January 2010. Several of them lost friends and family and they themselves became refugees. They all have gone through trauma and have painful memories. But Wednesday was a day to put those memories aside, if even for a short while, and to enjoy a baseball game and other good times provided by the New York Yankees. Yankee shortstop Derek Jeter hustled up the dugout steps and greeted the kids, "How you doing? I'm Derek Jeter. Nice to meet you." "Young lady how are you?" asked Yankee manager Joe Girardi. The Yankees call this HOPE Week. It stands for Helping Others Preserve and Excel, an initiative in which the Yankees reach out to an individual, family or organization they think is "worthy of recognition and support." This is the third year for the charity event. "It's an opportunity for us to give back, but in the long run, we're the ones who are truly blessed by these people" Girardi told CNN. The kids were treated to seeing the baseball superstars take their batting practice before the game. One of the children, Charles, got to throw out the ceremonial first pitch. After the game, first baseman Jorge Posada had the students race around the infield bases before they boarded a double-decker tour bus along with a few of the Yankees for a tour of the city. Yankees pitcher CC Sabathia said of the kids on the tour, "Being able to hang out with them going on a bus tour in New York City, I think is pretty cool and I've never done it. The kids are excited, so we are excited." When the kids got to midtown Manhattan, everybody piled out of the bus and into the lobby of the Empire State Building for the ceremonial lighting of building, followed by a skyline view from the 86th floor observatory. Nine-year-old Frantz Blues summed it up pretty well when he said, "New York is really, really big." From there it was onto a pizzeria, where Derek Jeter boarded the bus with some pies. He knew the kids were glad to see him, but not because of his 3,000-plus hits: "It's fun, but you know I think the kids are more happy with the pizza than me showing up." The children's principal, Linda Freebes, acknowledged what the day meant for the youngsters: "I'm sure that they will treasure this memory forever. And all the unhappiness they had, this is a glimmer of sunshine and hope in their lives."
Harold Pinter, the Nobel Prize-winning playwright and screenwriter whose absurdist and realistic works displayed a despair and defiance about the human condition, has died, according to British media reports. He was 78. The much-honored Harold Pinter received the French Legion d'honneur in 2007. Pinter's wife, Lady Antonia Fraser, confirmed his death. Pinter, who had been suffering from cancer, died on Christmas Eve, according to the reports. Fraser told the Guardian newspaper: "He was a great, and it was a privilege to live with him for over 33 years. He will never be forgotten." Pinter was known for such plays as "The Birthday Party" (1957), "The Homecoming" (1964), "No Man's Land" (1974), "Mountain Language" (1988), and "Celebration" (2000). The works caught a linguistic rhythm -- the legendary "Pinter pause" -- and an air of social unease that resonated throughout the English-speaking world and in myriad translations. His movie credits, like his plays, span the decades and include "The Quiller Memorandum" (1965) and "The French Lieutenant's Woman" (1981). Pinter also wrote the screenplay for his 1978 play "Betrayal," the story of a doomed love affair told backward, which was made into a 1983 film with Ben Kingsley, Jeremy Irons and Patricia Hodge. He received the Nobel Prize in literature in 2005. Pinter's later plays were more overtly political, with works such as "One for the Road" (1984) and "The New World Order" (1991) focusing on state torture. In commentaries, he became a blistering critic of the United States, writing in his Nobel lecture that the country "quite simply doesn't give a damn about the United Nations, international law or critical dissent, which it regards as impotent and irrelevant. It also has its own bleating little lamb tagging behind it on a lead, the pathetic and supine Great Britain." But Pinter could also be a man of great humor. In 2006, he recounted a story about a fall that had landed him in the hospital a year earlier. "Two days later, I woke up to find that I'd been given the Nobel Prize in literature," he said. "So life is really full of ups and downs, you see." Harold Pinter was born in London on October 10, 1930. He was the son of Jewish immigrants, his father a dressmaker, his mother "a wonderful cook," he once recalled. In 1948 he was accepted into the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts, then as now one of Great Britain's most renowned drama schools. But the RADA didn't take; Pinter hated the school and dropped out after two terms. He became an actor and turned to playwriting with his first work, "The Room," in 1957. Later that year he wrote "The Birthday Party," a "comedy of menace," in the words of one critic, that helped make Pinter's reputation -- though, in an irony he could appreciate, after it closed in London due to scathing notices. Ensuing Pinter plays, including "The Dumb Waiter" (1957) and "The Homecoming," made him Britain's most famous playwright, as influential to "late 20th-century British theater [as] Tennessee Williams is to mid-century American stages," CNN.com's Porter Anderson wrote in 2006. "What's generally meant as a 'Pinter play' in the purest sense usually revolves around one or more characters who are imposing on themselves a constricted, even deprived existence in order to hold off a presumed but uncertain threat," Anderson wrote. Pinter's plays featured sparse dialogue, often spiced with paranoia or simple befuddlement. In "The Birthday Party," a boardinghouse resident is accosted by two malevolent visitors who insist it's his birthday; in "The Homecoming" -- which won the Tony Award for best play when it premiered on Broadway in 1967 -- a professor and his wife return to his working-class British family, where the wife becomes the center of attention. Pinter credited Samuel Beckett, among others, as an influence. (He starred in a production of Beckett's "Krapp's Last Tape" in 2006.) In turn, writers such as David Mamet and Sam Shepard followed Pinter's elliptical lead. "One way of looking at speech is to say it is a constant stratagem to cover nakedness," Pinter once said. He was married first to the actress Vivien Merchant. Following a 1980 divorce, Pinter married writer-historian Lady Antonia Fraser.
China's population may be in excess of 1.3 billion inhabitants but only two of its players had ever reached a grand slam semifinal -- until Tuesday. That was when unseeded Peng Shuai put years of frustration, thoughts of retirement and major heart surgery to one side as she blew away Swiss teen Belinda Bencic at the U.S. Open. At her 37th grand slam, the 28-year-old was finally into her first semifinals. The buildup had mainly focused on the 17-year-old Bencic but it was the little known Peng -- far more recognized as a doubles player -- who stole the show with a powerful display. By so doing, she follows in the footsteps of Li Na, a two-time grand slam winner, and Zheng Jie, who reached semifinals at Wimbledon (2008) and the Australian Open (2010). "It's a little bit too exciting," Peng said on court after her 6-2 6-1 victory, earning a round of applause after pausing as emotion got the better of her. "I love tennis, I love to play." That much is clear from her back story. Aged 12, Peng went against her family wishes to undergo a major operation to repair a fault in her heart. The procedure was so complicated surgeons had to access her heart through her left leg but as Peng made clear in a 2008 advertisement, there was one fundamental reason she went through with it. "All I thought was very simple: if I want to continue tennis, I need to have this operation," she said in the Adidas advert. Nearly two decades later, her tenacity was rewarded when she achieved the No. 1 ranking in doubles. By so doing, she became the first Chinese to ever achieve top spot -- whether in singles or doubles, male or female. Despite the ranking, a player who has never won a singles title revealed she had been wracked by doubts in recent times. "A career is tough sometimes," said Peng in victory. "I've thought about giving up, stopping playing (singles), because I didn't know if I can make it, but my coach and parents told me to never give up." With her two-fisted ground strokes proving too much for a rattled Bencic, the youngest U.S. Open quarterfinalist since 1997, Peng hit 24 winners. Although Zheng was the first Chinese player to reach a grand slam semifinal, world No. 3 Li has taken the country's tennis further. She won its first singles grand slam at the 2011 French Open, before clinching a second title at this year's Australian Open. No Chinese woman has ever reached the U.S. Open singles final, a record that Peng -- who has won two grand slam doubles titles in the last year -- will try to correct on Thursday. She will meet 2009 finalist Caroline Wozniacki, who continued her career resurgence by crushing Italian 13th seed Sara Errani 6-0 6-1 later Tuesday. The former world No. 1, who has a 5-1 career record over Peng, reached the last four of a grand slam for the first time since 2011, also in New York. "She was much stronger than me physically tonight," said Errani, a semifinalist in 2012. "She doesn't let you play. She never misses. "And every point was a long point, and it made me feel worse, physically." Serena Williams is in action on Wednesday against Italy's Flavia Pennetta, but she suffered a frustrating day on Tuesday. Not only did she lose her doubles quarterfinal with sister Venus to Russian pair Ekaterina Makarova and Elena Vesnina, but she also suffered an injury scare. The world No. 1's right foot had to be heavily bandaged early in the second set of the 7-6 6-4 defeat. In the men's event, second seed Roger Federer marched into the quarterfinals for the 10th time in the last 11 years with an aggressive 6-4 6-3 6-2 win over Spanish 17th seed Roberto Bautista Agut. The five-time U.S. champion, seeking his first final appearance since losing the 2009 title match, came to the net 50 times as he comfortably set up a clash with French 20th seed Gael Monfils. "I'm happy I'm able to come forward now because coming to net requires a lot of agility and explosiveness, and I have it back," said the veteran 17-time grand slam winner. He has a 7-2 record over Monfils, beating him in three sets on the way to winning the Cincinnati title last month. "I know exactly how I need to play him," Federer said. "I know I'll be coming in; he knows he'll be defending. He'll be wanting to serve well and play big as well." Monfils, known for his all-action style, was in impressive form as he overcame a sluggish Grigor Dimitrov 7-5 7-6 (8-6) 7-5 to reach the quarterfinals at Flushing Meadows for a third time. Sixth seed Tomas Berdych will play Croatia's Marin Cilic in the quarterfinals, after the Czech beat Austria's Dominic Thiem 6-1 6-2 6-4. Cilic, seeded 14th, came from behind to beat Richard Gasquet 5-7 7-6 (7-3) 6-4 3-6 6-3, avenging his five-set defeat by the Frenchman at January's Australian Open. In Wednesday's opening quarterfinals, Australian Open champion Stanislas Wawrinka takes on Japanese 10th seed Kei Nishikori, then in the late session world No. 1 Novak Djokovic plays Andy Murray in a repeat of the 2012 title match.
The institution of marriage is unique. It is the one institution that binds women and men together to form a family, and this serves broad societal purposes. In California, a U.S. District Court Judge last week overturned Proposition 8, the California Marriage Protection Act. It was passed in November 2008 by California voters to recognize "only marriage between a man and a woman." The majority of Californians, including two-thirds of the state's black voters, have just had their core civil right -- the right to vote -- stripped from them by an openly gay federal judge who has misread history and the Constitution to impose his views on the state's people. The implicit comparison Judge Vaughn Walker made between racism and opposition to same-sex marriage is particularly offensive to me and to all who remember the reality of Jim Crow. It is not bigotry, it is biology that discriminates between same-sex couples and opposite-sex couples. A marriage requires a husband and a wife, because these unions are necessary to make new life and connect children to their mother and father. Judge Walker's decision will not stand the test of time and history. Congress and the Supreme Court must act to protect all Americans' right to vote for marriage. Advocates of making same-sex marriage a legally recognized right claim that this will have no impact on traditional marriage -- that it can peacefully coexist alongside traditional marriage. On the contrary, it will have profound impacts. It will create a conflict for people of faith (and nonreligious people as well) who fervently believe in traditional man-woman marriage and the law. The Bible is so clear in its support of heterosexual marriage there is little need for us to go through an exhaustive definition of biblical marriage versus the types of unions allowed by law today. The Scriptures say in Genesis 2:24 that a man is to leave his family and cleave to his wife. This concept is repeated in Matthew 19:5 and Mark 10:7. All the scriptures in the Bible concerning marriage presuppose heterosexual marriage. We can teach our kids that there are important spiritual and societal reasons to believe in traditional marriage and oppose same-sex marriage. But if same-sex marriage becomes legally recognized across the country, our kids will be told that gay marriage is a civil rights issue and that those who oppose it are akin to the racists of history who opposed interracial marriage and supported slavery. We can teach our children at home that marriage is between a man and a woman, but our children's public schools will teach them that marriage includes same-sex couples. Both would be "equal marriages" under the law. What might this look like? In Massachusetts, where a ruling legalized same-sex marriage in 2004, kids in public schools are reading books depicting same-sex families. At a California charter school in 2008, kindergartners' parents objected when a school newsletter alerted them to "National Coming Out Day;" a parent told a local ABC-TV affiliate that a teacher at the school screened a film to kindergartners the previous year showing gay families. These kinds of ill-advised social experiments may produce a host of unexpected consequences. If gay marriage is allowed, the nation will soon begin to experience an increased degradation of the nuclear family -- resulting in fewer kids being raised by both a mom and a dad. Beyond that, those of us who believe in traditional marriage and are in a regulated profession -- such as counselor, physician, attorney or accountant -- and act in concert with our beliefs, may be vulnerable to losing our professional license and our livelihood. We can be a religious charity faithfully fulfilling our mission by serving our community, such as by providing adoption and other services, but if we refuse to provide those services to a same-sex couple, we have the choice of abandoning our beliefs or ending our mission. In 2003, Adoption.com was sued by two California homosexual men, who claimed illegal discrimination because the agency refused to serve homosexual couples. The agency lost the lawsuit and no longer serves adoptive parents in California. An even more substantive danger lies in the consequences of gay marriage on the next generation. Redefining marriage redefines family. Changing the concept of family will change both the definition and the pattern of parenting. What will the landscape of America look like if same-sex marriage is legalized across our nation? Social scientists report what most Americans have always known: Both boys and girls are deeply affected in biological and psychological ways by the presence of their fathers. If the American family loses the presence of the birth dad in the home, there will be huge consequences to the growth and stability of the next generation of children in that family. For example, repeatedly, scholarly studies focused on adolescence show that early onset of puberty in girls is associated with negative psychological, social, and health problems including depression, alcohol consumption, and higher teenage pregnancy. An eight-year study of girls and their families showed that a father's presence in the home, with appropriate involvement in his children's lives, contributed to daughters' reaching puberty at a later age. Despite the incredible adaptability of children, our entire culture should advocate for family structures that promote the most positive environments for coming generations. In addition to fighting the marriage redefinition, leaders from all sectors of our culture, including our churches, must work hard at improving heterosexual marriages. Counseling, modeling, and interventions are needed to help ailing marriages. Both battles must be fought if our families, which are the incubators of future societal greatness, are to be protected. Let's set our sights high. Let's not fall victim to the circling  argument of our opposition. We simply need an army of bipartisan leaders to strategize, organize, and prioritize the protection of marriage. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Harry R. Jackson, Jr.
For more than two decades, Chester Nez kept silent about his role as one of the original Navajo code talkers responsible for developing an unbreakable code during World War II. His death Wednesday at his home in Albuquerque, New Mexico, at age 93 was lamented by the Marine Corps as the end of an era -- for both the country and its armed forces. "We mourn his passing but honor and celebrate the indomitable spirit and dedication of those Marines who became known as the Navajo code talkers," the Marines said in a statement. Nez was the last remaining of the original 29 Navajos recruited by the Marine Corps to develop the legendary code that was used for vital communications during battle. He was a teenager when he was recruited in 1942 and assigned with the other code talkers to the Marine Corps' 382nd Platoon at Camp Pendleton. Together, they created a code, including developing a dictionary. Military authorities chose Navajo as a code language because its syntax and tonal qualities were almost impossible for a non-Navajo to learn, and it had no written form. The ranks of the Navajo code talkers swelled to more than 300 by the end of the war in 1945. The code talkers were forbidden from telling anyone about it -- not their fellow Marines, not their families -- until their work was declassified in 1968. The original 29 were presented with the Congressional Gold Medal in 2001 by President George W. Bush. "In developing our code, we were careful to use everyday Navajo words, so that we could memorize and retain the words easily," Nez told CNN in 2011 while promoting his book "Code Talker." "I think that made our job easier, and I think it helped us to be successful in the heat of battle." Still, Nez said he worried every day that an error might cost the life of an American military service member. Nez was among the code talkers who were shipped out to Guadalcanal in 1942, where the code talkers worked in teams of two, with one relaying and receiving messages while the other cranked the portable radio and listened for errors in transmission. "That was my first combat experience, and there was a lot of suffering and a lot of the condition was real bad out there," he told CNN's Larry King in 2002. Nez also fought in Guam and Peleliu. "When bombs dropped, generally we code talkers couldn't just curl up in a shelter," Nez wrote in his book. "We were almost always needed to transmit information, to ask for supplies and ammunition, and to communicate strategies. And after each transmission, to avoid Japanese fire, we had to move." The code talkers faced initial resistance from fellow Marines who did not understand who they were and what they were doing. That changed once they understood the importance of the code, Nez said. The Navajo code baffled the Japanese, who had successfuly deciphered codes used by the U.S. Army.  After the war, the Japanese chief of intelligence, Lt. General Seizo Arisue, admitted they were never able to crack the Navajo code used by the Marines and Navy, according to the Navy. Nez was discharged in 1945, but later volunteered to fight in the Korean War. After the code talkers' exploits were declassified by the military, the group gained legendary status with books and, ultimately, a movie that was inspired by their stories. "The recognition of the code talkers came late, but it has been good for my Navajo people. I hope that this type of recognition continues across cultures," Nez said. The 2002 film "Windtalkers," starring Adam Beach and Nicolas Cage, followed the fictional account of two Marines assigned to protect two code talkers during the battle of Saipan. "I could understand when they sent the message and received on the other end," Nez said. "I could understand, and I could sit there and write it down myself. I still remember it." It was a far cry from his childhood, when he was forced to attend a boarding school and punished by the teachers for speaking Navajo, according to his book. It's a language, though, that appears lost even to many members of his own family. "My own children do not speak Navajo, although my daughter-in-law ... speaks it well," he said. Nez said he decided to tell his story because he wanted to share the contributions and sacrifices of the Navajo during World War II. "Our Navajo code was one of the most important military secrets of World War II. The fact that the Marines did not tell us Navajo men how to develop that code indicated their trust in us and in our abilities," he said. "The feeling that I could make it in both the white world and the Navajo world began there, and it has stayed with me all of my life. For that I am grateful." The Navajo Nation's flags have been ordered lowered in Nez's honor, President Ben Shelly said. People we have lost in 2014 .
New York (CNN)Around 100 potential jurors made their way into a Manhattan courtroom Monday morning, as Pedro Hernandez, alleged killer of 6-year-old Etan Patz, looked on. Hernandez, joined by his attorneys, Harvey Fishbein and Alice Fontier, sat in court opposite prosecutors from the Manhattan District Attorney's Office as jury selection for the criminal case began. In May 2012, Hernandez confessed to choking the boy to death in New York City in 1979, according to police. The potential jurors were asked to review a list of 131 names of potential witnesses and disclose whether they knew anyone on the list. "The publicity surrounding this case is ... unprecedented," said presiding Judge Maxwell Wiley, urging the possible jurors not to read any media reports on the case. You must "base your decision on what you hear in this courtroom and nothing else," Wiley instructed. Jury selection is expected to continue at least until the end of the week, with an additional 100 people expected to arrive Tuesday.  Ultimately, 12 people will be chosen to serve on the jury. The trial is expected to last approximately two to three months, Wiley said. Hernandez admitted to luring Etan, who was en route to a school bus stop, into the basement of a bodega where Hernandez worked as a stock clerk and killing him, according to police. The boy's body was put in a garbage bag and thrown away, Hernandez allegedly told authorities. The remains were never found. Fishbein previously argued that his client falsely confessed and the statements were not reliable because Hernandez has an "IQ in the borderline-to-mild mental retardation range," and had been repeatedly diagnosed with schizophrenia. But a judge ruled in November that Hernandez's confession would be admissible in court. The Patz case garnered national attention after the boy went missing, and his picture was plastered on thousands of milk cartons around the country. In November 2012, a grand jury indicted Hernandez on second-degree murder and kidnapping charges. He pleaded not guilty in court the following month.
A massive earthquake struck off the coast of the Indonesian island of Sumatra on Wednesday afternoon, triggering a tsunami watch for the Indian Ocean, which was later canceled. The quake struck about 434 kilometers (270 miles) southwest of Banda Aceh, the capital of Indonesia's Aceh province, and had a magnitude of 8.6, the U.S. Geological Survey said. It took place at a depth of 23 kilometers (14 miles). A second large quake, with a magnitude of 8.2, occurred off the west coast of Sumatra about two hours later, the USGS said. Gary Gibson from the Seismology Research Center in Melbourne, Australia, said the location of the second quake reduced the possibility of a tsunami. There was also a series of smaller quakes off the west coast of northern Sumatra with magnitudes between 5.1 and 5.4. There were no reports of destruction or deaths. Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said on local television that there were no reports of casualties or damage in Aceh. Four people were slightly injured on Simeulue Island, off the coast of Aceh, the National Disaster Management Agency said Wednesday. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center issued a tsunami watch for the entire Indian Ocean. And a few hours later, the center announced the tsunami watch was canceled. "A significant tsunami was generated by this earthquake. However, sea level readings now indicate that the threat has diminished or is over for most areas," the center said. How are earthquakes measured? The center earlier said that "when no major waves have occurred for at least two hours after the estimated arrival time or damaging waves have not occurred for at least two hours, then local authorities can assume the threat is passed." The center posted approximate arrival times for waves in different parts of the region, which were predicted at various times in different cities throughout the day. Waves were reported at 1-meter (about 3.3-foot) amplitude -- or height above sea level -- offshore in Meulaboh, Indonesia, but in other cities, they were reported at about a foot or less, according to the warning center. British Prime Minister David Cameron announced that Britain "stands ready to help if required." The first quake took place at 2:38 p.m. local time (4:38 a.m. ET). It appears to have involved a horizontal movement rather than a vertical movement, so it is less likely that it will generate a tsunami, Gibson said. He also said that the tremor took place a long way offshore and was therefore unlikely to have caused much damage. Still, officials called on coastal residents in some low-lying areas in the region to seek higher ground. The power went out in Banda Aceh, and residents moved to higher elevations, said Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman for the Indonesian National Disaster Management Agency. The areas most at risk of a tsunami are coastal areas of Aceh, particularly the island of Simeulue, Prih Harjadi, an official for the Indonesian geophysics agency, said on Metro TV. In some areas, residents were allowed to return after the tsunami watch was lifted. In Thailand, the National Disaster Warning Center issued an evacuation order for residents and tourists along the Andaman coast, state-run news agency MCOT said. "The tremor was felt as far as in Bangkok where office workers at several high-rise buildings said their workplaces were shaken" for three to five minutes, the report said. "Several southern provinces also felt the tremors." In the Maldives, some resorts were evacuated in advance of possible waves, according to CNN's Erin Burnett, who was on vacation in the region. "What strikes me most is essentially the lack of a warning system" in the Maldives, she said. Officials rely primarily on information from the USGS, Burnett said. Interactive: World's deadliest earthquakes . In 2004, a 9.1-magnitude underwater earthquake off the coast of Sumatra triggered a tsunami that killed more than 200,000 people in 14 countries. The majority of the deaths were in Indonesia, with Aceh bearing the brunt. That quake took place 250 kilometers (155 miles) south-southeast of Banda Aceh at a depth of 30 kilometers (19 miles). The tsunami, which washed away entire communities, caused nearly $10 billion in damage and more casualties than any other tsunami in history, according to the United Nations. Since then, officials have worked to improve warning systems and have carried out drills in the region. Indonesia is on the so-called Ring of Fire, an arc of fault lines circling the Pacific Basin that is prone to frequent earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. The earthquake Wednesday comes just over year after a magnitude-9 quake off the northeast coast of Japan caused a devastating tsunami. The death toll from that disaster stands at about 15,850. iReport: Earthquake in Dhaka . CNN's Jethro Mullen, Josh Levs, Kathy Quiano, Harmeet Shah Singh, Mari Ramos and Sean Morris contributed to this report.
Facing a stopover of a few hours in Zurich? Don't waste it in the airport lounge. Check in your suitcase, and zip into the city for a brief encounter with a European cultural capital set amidst idyllic natural surroundings. Getting around . Zurich airport, voted the world's seventh best in the recent World Airport Awards, is a mere 10-minute train ride from the city center, with trains leaving about every 10 minutes. You can safely venture into the city without fear of missing your connection -- this being Switzerland, the trains run like clockwork. The Swiss are among the world's biggest users of trains, second only to the Japanese, and insist on rail services that are reliably punctual. Zurich's hyper-efficient Glattalbahn tram network is also invaluable for the time-pressed traveler. The number 10 service runs every seven to 15 minutes and connects Zurich Airport with the city's centrally located main railway station. Situated at the northern tip of Lake Zurich, with a view of the Alps in the distance, Switzerland's largest city has a rich history as a center of European high culture. With a heritage stretching back to Roman times, it is home to grand historic buildings and more than 50 museums, meaning travelers will find plenty to occupy themselves with. See also: Higher air fares, more mergers? None of it comes cheaply though: Zurich recently overtook Tokyo to become the world's most expensive city, according to the Worldwide Cost of Living Survey. To mitigate those expenses, even those on a flying visit will likely find it worthwhile buying a ZurichCARD, which can be bought at the service center at the airport or the railway station. The card, which costs 20 CHF ($21.60) for a 24-hour option, offers free travel on the city's comprehensive public transport network of trains, trams, buses and boats, free admission to museums, and significant discounts on guided tours and other attractions. Given that the return train fare from the airport to the city center is 12.80 CHF ($13.80), and the entry to the Kunsthaus, the city's modern art museum, is 15 CHF ($16.20), even if you only have time for one activity, the card will more than likely pay for itself. City tours . Zurich Tourism advises taking a guided tour of the city, which can be booked through its website. Tours of the postcard scenes of the city's historic Aldstadt, or Old Town, take two hours and run every day, while other tours visit key sites that give an insight into the city's history -- the rise of guilds in the 14th century, or how the city became a stronghold of the Reformation. Another option visits Zurich West, the city's former industrial district between the Limmat River and the railway, which is now a hip, grungy home of designer retailers and eateries. But if you prefer to go at your pace, most of the city's attractions are concentrated in the Old Town, around the river and lakefront, with the rest easily accessed on Zurich's celebrated public transport network, the world's densest. See also: Singapore stopover: Make the most of your travel time . Sights . For a culture fix, head to the Kunsthaus, Switzerland's most significant art collection, representing the important periods of European art from the Middle Ages. Just a few minutes walk away, toward the banks of the Limmat River, is the Grossmunster, a Romanesque-style protestant church that is one of the city's three great churches. Climb the tower for a great view of the city. Five minutes walk across the Limmat is one of the city's other major churches, the Fraumunster, featuring stained glass windows by celebrated Russian artist Marc Chagall. Behind the Fraumunster runs the Bahnhofstrasse, a mile-long shopping street that is one of the world's most exclusive (and expensive). If you have a few hours to spare before your flight, and feel like a bracing trip on the water, the ZurichCARD also allows for free travel on the boats plying Lake Zurich. Boat cruises on 90-minute round trips depart from the Lake Zurich Navigation Company's depot on the waterfront at Burkliplatz, about five minutes walk from the Fraumunster. Fast food . Sightseeing can work up a hunger and some of the city's most distinctive dining experiences are to be had in the Old Town, housed in halls that were formerly home to the guilds that wielded power in the city. But on a tight time frame, it might make more sense to grab something on the go. Follow the crowds to the Sternengrill -- a mobile bratwurst vendor that is a city institution. Other Swiss specialties include soft, baguette-like pretzels loaded with savory fillings -- available city-wide from pretzel chain BrezelkÃ¶nig -- and fresh-cooked crepes smeared in apple sauce, which you can pick up from countless roadside vendors. Sated on street snacks and sightseeing, head back to the train station and make the short ride back to the airport content in the knowledge you've done something more stimulating during your stopover than check your email.
New York City has agreed to pay $100,000 to a Brooklyn man whose beating by police officers was caught on surveillance video, the city law department said Tuesday. The incident occurred on October 8, 2012, after police received a call about a dispute at the ALIYA Institute in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, police said. There, police came upon Ehud Halevy, 22, who refused to leave the women's portion of the center. The community center surveillance video, obtained by CNN from the website CrownHeights.info, showed two officers beating Halevy with punches after he allegedly resisted arrest. The police department's Internal Affairs Bureau Investigated the incident but eventually cleared both officers of wrongdoing, according to Halevy's lawyer, Norman Siegel. The settlement ends the lawsuit Halevy filed against the city in January 2013. In addition to the $100,000, the city will also pay Halevy's attorney's fees, which are still being negotiated, Siegel said. "This civil rights action was brought in response to the violent acts of police abuse against Mr. Halevy and a violation of his civil rights," Siegel told CNN. "Hopefully, this horrific action by NYPD officers will never happen to anyone again." The graphic video shows a bare-chested, bearded Halevy talking with two officers -- one of them a woman -- in what appears to be a game room containing a pool table and two couches. The video shows the officers approaching Halevy, who is on one of the couches, and talking to him. Moments later, he stands and talks with the officers, gesticulating with his arms but making no apparent threat toward either officer. The video has no sound. When the officers attempt to grab him by his arms, Halevy pulls free of their grasp. The male officer crouches into a boxing stance and hits the victim more than a dozen times, striking him in the face, the back of his head and his torso. Halevy falls back into a couch, where he raises his arms in an apparent attempt to deflect the blows, but at no point does it appear that he is seeking to strike either officer. Later in the video, the female officer can be seen striking Halevy repeatedly with a truncheon. More than three minutes into the video, about 10 more officers enter the room, where they cuff Halevy's wrists behind his back and lead him out. According to a spokesman from the city law department, the "settlement was in the best interest of all parties."
It looks like a regular bike light, but one day a Blaze could save your life. Invented by a UK design student, Blaze is a detachable lamp that projects a laser image five meters in front of your bicycle to let motorists, bus drivers and pedestrians know you are coming. Blaze's inventor, Emily Brooke, a physics student turned product designer, came up with the idea while she was studying at Brighton university. "While studying I knew the problem that I wanted to tackle very clearly: sideswiping or blind spot incidents where vehicles turn across a cyclist's path." Incidences of cycling fatalities remain a problem in most major capitals around the world. As more and more commuters travel to work on two wheels rather than four, a myriad of new safety equipment, infrastructure and road rules are being introduced to keep cyclists out of harm's way. In many cities in the U.S. and beyond, cycling is on the rise. According to statistics published by Governing Data, cycling has grown exponentially in most major U.S. cities since 2006. In London cycling has more than doubled in the last decade and in many cities in the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark, cycling now accounts for more than 20% of urban trips. In spite of a gradual decline, urban cycling also remains hugely popular across China. Brooke says that her primary motivation for inventing the Blaze was to improve cyclist safety: . "Last year over 3,000 people were killed or seriously injured on Britain's roads alone. We have over half a million people cycle in London every day and the fatality statistics are really terrifying. Over a hundred people were killed last year. The fact that I really wanted to focus on was the 79% of cyclists hit were travelling straight ahead and a vehicle turned into them so that was the one cyclist that I really focused on in designing Blaze," Brooke says. Blaze is a front-mounted light powered by bright LEDs that also projects a green laser image of a bicycle onto the road to let motorists know a cyclist is coming. The aim is to help prevent vehicles from turning across a cyclist's path of cyclists by increasing their 'footprint' on the road. It is one of a new crop of tech products aimed at improving cyclist safety. The annual Interbike conference, which opens next week, will showcase a large number of new products including a device that emits high frequency audio signals to keep pursuing dogs at bay. Also being launched soon is a set of 'smart handle bars' fitted with LED lights that adjust to your environment and speed. They will also track your bike via SMS if it is stolen. Pure Fix Cycles have a glow-in-the-dark bike frame to light up your entire bicycle at night. Dr Graham Hole, a Senior Lecturer in Psychology at the University of Sussex, says that increasing visibility could be critical to keeping cyclists safe: "Brooke's invention could be a major aid to detecting cyclists. It gives the driver advance warning of a cyclist's approach ... it has the potential to make a significant difference to cyclists' safety on the roads." Read more: 12 amazing designs from the past 100 years . Carlton Reid, editor of BikeBiz agrees that products that aim to increase cyclist visibility could be useful in preventing accidents: "Anything that increases conspicuity has got to be a good thing, although in the UK cyclists and motorcyclists have a saying about those motorists who knock into us. We call such collisions: SMIDSYs -- 'sorry mate I didn't see you.'" Many cyclists believe that rather than developing new technology, safe cycling requires changes in the attitudes and behaviors of road users. Andy Clarke, President of the League of American Bicyclists says: "Clearly, better bike infrastructure encourages more riders, makes things safer for both cyclists and motorists, and encourages better behavior by riders -- all of which are good things. "But perhaps more fundamental than any road design or technological fix attached to cars or bikes is an improvement in operator behavior! Getting drivers to pay attention and be a little more patient (with everybody, not just cyclists) would make the world of difference out there. Distracted, drunk, drugged, drowsy and just plain poor driving is a real scourge -- especially if you are on foot or on a bike." Monique Rivalland contributed to this article .
(CNN)An unmanned NASA-contracted rocket exploded in midair early Tuesday evening, producing huge flames and loud booms along the eastern Virginia coast but no injuries or deaths. Orbital Sciences Corp.'s Antares rocket and Cygnus cargo spacecraft had been set to launch at 6:22 p.m. ET from the Wallops Flight Facility along the Atlantic Ocean, carrying roughly 5,000 pounds of supplies and experiments to the International Space Station. It exploded about six seconds after launch. What was left of the spacecraft and rocket plummeted back to Earth, causing even more flames upon impact. The rocket and spacecraft -- which together cost more than $200 million, according to Frank Culbertson, the general manager of Orbital's Advanced Programs Group -- are gone. And there's obvious damage beyond that, including to the launchpad, though the night skies made it hard to immediately gauge how much. One thing officials do know is that rocket science is, in the words of NASA  Administrator Bill Gerstenmaier, "a really tough business." "Tonight's events really show the difficulty that it takes for us to do this task of delivering cargo to the space station," he said. What happened? The Orbital rocket had been set to go up Monday, only to be scrubbed "because of a boat down range in the trajectory Antares would have flown had it lifted off," according to NASA. Coast Guard spokesman David Weydert said the boat that triggered the postponement was 40 miles offshore. Tuesday, by contrast, seemed perfect. Just before liftoff, NASA reported "100% favorable" weather and "no technical concerns with the rocket or spacecraft being worked." It seemed to be going perfectly when Ed Encina saw the launch brighten up the sky from his vantage point about 3 miles away. "And then, all of a sudden, you see a big fireball," said Encina, a Baltimore Sun reporter. Encina recalled a loud boom that caused "your feet (to) shake a little bit," as well as flames enveloping a roughly 100-yard area around the launchpad in a marshy area with brush. CNN iReporter Dymetria Sellers, who watched from a drawbridge because the NASA visitors station was ful, recalled a "breathtakingly beautiful" sight when the rocket ascended, followed by mass confusion as flames lit up the early nighttime sky moments later. "About 30 seconds later, we could hear and feel two booms reach us, and it was apparent the rocket had exploded," she said. Did you witness the rocket explosion? Please share your images . Mark Kelly, a former NASA astronaut, said such a colossal fire was to be expected. "It takes a lot of propellant to take a spacecraft of that size moving 25 times the speed of sound," Kelly told CNN, explaining how fast the rocket should have gone on its way to the space station. "So when it fails, it's usually pretty catastrophic." Authorities said the safety parameters appear to have worked, and noted the lack of casualties. "All we lost was hardware," Culbertson said. "That hardware, however, is very important." Will rocket's 'catastrophic failure' set back the private space industry? So what happened? That's exactly what officials -- both from public agencies like NASA and private companies like Orbital -- hope to find out in the coming days and weeks. "What we know so far is pretty much what everybody saw on the video," Culbertson said. "The ascent stopped, there was some, let's say disassembly, of the first stage, and then it fell to Earth. ... We don't really have any early indications of exactly what might have failed, and we need some time to look at that." Orbital will lead the investigation, along with the Federal Aviation Administration, with NASA assisting. Among other things, they'll try to collect and examine any debris that can be recovered, review data from the spacecraft before its destruction and look at videos around the launch time. The main focus Tuesday night was safety.  Bill Wrobel, the Wallops Flight Facility director, said fire crews had set up a perimeter around the affected area. "We're just basically letting the fire burn out, but they are contained," he added. Authorities expressed confidence that no people were directly affected by the explosion, but they could come across scattered remnants that are possibly floating in the water. As to when Orbital will fly again from Wallops, the only site it's now permitted to launch from, Culbertson didn't specify a timetable beyond saying, "We will fly again as soon as we can safely." Gerstenmaier offered a similar take: "We'll figure out what the failure is, we'll fix it, and we'll learn from it." In the meantime, they'll have to rebound from the loss. A third of the spacecraft's cargo was material for scientific investigations such as a Houston school's experiment on pea growth and a study on blood flow in space. There also were basic supplies meant for the crew of the space station -- now orbiting more than 200 miles above Earth -- including more than 1,300 pounds of food. But in the short term, no one is saying the space station's six-person crew will go hungry. NASA won't directly restock them, having relied on private companies to do so since the end of its space shuttle program. That includes Virginia-based Orbital, which had its first of eight planned ISS launches in January out of the Wallops facility as part of its $1.9 billion contract with NASA. Orbital becomes second private firm to send cargo to ISS . If Orbital can't resupply the space station, others can. On Wednesday, for instance, a Russian Soyuz resupply spacecraft  stocked with cargo and crew supplies is set to launch from Kazakhstan. SpaceX, another private company, plans its fifth mission in December, including more supplies and a laser instrument to measure pollution, dust and other aspects of the atmosphere, according to NASA. Even if those missions somehow fail, the space station crew has enough on hand to last well into next year. "The station is in great shape; the crew is in good shape," said Mike Suffredini, NASA's ISS manager. iReport: Explosion as seen from Maryland's eastern shore . CNN's Chandler Friedman, Kevin Conlon, Jareen Imam and Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
Egypt's former military chief doesn't mince words when he describes what would happen if he wins this month's presidential vote. In a taped interview broadcast on Egyptian satellite networks Monday, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi vowed to finish off the Muslim Brotherhood if he's elected, arguing that's what his country's people want. And he said he had no choice but to run for President. "Due to the challenges facing Egypt and the targeting of Egypt from inside and outside of the country ... any responsible patriot has a duty toward his country and its future, and has the opportunity to come forward to protect this country, and this people, and their future," el-Sisi said. The second part of the interview is due to air Tuesday. El-Sisi deposed Egypt's first freely elected leader, President Mohamed Morsy of the Muslim Brotherhood, last year following mass protests against Morsy's rule. The officer is popular among Egyptians who supported the army's decision to remove Morsy from power. His supporters see him as the kind of strongman needed to end the turmoil dogging Egypt since a popular uprising ended Hosni Mubarak's three decades of one-man rule in 2011. In Monday's interview, he said there had been two attempts to assassinate him, but that didn't stop him from wanting to run for President. "I believe in fate," he said. "I am not afraid." He appeared relaxed in the interview, talking about his children and saying his wife had urged him to seek election. El-Sisi resigned from his military post in March to run for the presidency. He'll face just one challenger at the polls, Hamdeen Sabahi, who also had harsh words for the Muslim Brotherhood when he spoke to CNN last month, accusing the group of being "responsible for bloodshed and sponsoring terrorism in Egypt." But Sabahi said he would scrap a controversial law enacted last fall and backed by el-Sisi, which places severe restrictions on demonstration in Egypt. "I will issue a law that protects and regulates, not prevents, demonstration. And I will release all the innocent people who were convicted according to this unconstitutional law, and particularly college students in Egypt who were angry because of the excessive force used by the police," he said. In Monday's interview, broadcast on the Egyptian satellite channels CBC and ONTV, el-Sisi defended the protest law, saying that "irresponsible" demonstrations threaten the state. Egyptians are scheduled to head to the polls to vote for President on May 26 and 27. Parliamentary elections will be held soon afterward, but dates have not yet been determined, Egypt's state-run Ahram Online reported Monday. Editors' Note: This article has been edited to remove plagiarized content after CNN discovered multiple instances of plagiarism by Marie-Louise Gumuchian, a former CNN news editor.
Rep. Gabrielle Giffords was in Tucson Monday to finish what she started -- a "Congress on Your Corner" meeting that was interrupted by gunfire, a shooting rampage that left six people dead and Giffords with a gunshot wound to her head just over a year ago. The meeting came one day after Giffords, 41, announced that she would resign from Congress this week. "We were invited to finish what we started a year ago. I know that every person amongst us has been waiting for that moment. I told her what I wanted to tell her a year ago, and then I told her how sorry I was that I couldn't really introduce her to Christina," said Suzi Hileman, one of the roughly two dozen people invited to attend the private event. Hileman was referring to Christina Green -- her neighbor and the youngest victim of that fateful day. Hileman herself was shot three times in the rampage. "When I said that Christina would have grown up to be her, she took my hand," Hileman said about Giffords. "She's my hero ... She'll be back and I'll be voting for her." Two pictures of Giffords' arrival were sent out to the public, one showing her being greeted by supporters at the event. Another, more emotional picture was later tweeted out: It showed Giffords hugging Daniel Hernandez, the staffer credited with saving her life. After the "Congress on Your Corner" meeting, the congresswoman toured an area food bank, where she was met with enthusiastic applause. "A lot has happened over the past year. We cannot change that," Giffords says in a video on her website, speaking in a halting manner. She said she will resign to continue her recuperation from the brain injury she suffered when she was shot. "I don't remember much from that horrible day, but I will never forget the trust you placed in me to be your voice," Giffords continues. "Thank you for your prayers and for giving me time to recover. I have more work to do on my recovery. So to do what is best for Arizona, I will step down this week." Giffords, a Democrat, will submit a letter of resignation during the week to House Speaker John Boehner and Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer. A senior House GOP leadership aide told CNN that on Wednesday the House will vote on a bill that was one of Giffords' legislative priorities -- a bill to crack down on drug smuggling at the U.S. border that is conducted by smugglers using ultra-light aircraft. The decision to schedule a vote on the measure comes after Giffords' husband, Mark Kelly, spoke to House Majority Leader Eric Cantor over the weekend, the aide said. Kelly called Cantor to say he was "very appreciative" of his support over the last year, and mentioned that the border security bill was one of the issues Giffords wanted to address before she resigned. The aide said leaders are now working with Giffords' office on the details, but they are planning to bring the bill up on Wednesday morning before House Democrats head off for their annual legislative retreat. A Senate version of the bill passed last year, but the House has not voted on the issue yet. Gov. Brewer told reporters Sunday that within 72 hours of receiving Giffords' resignation, she expects to call a primary election sometime in April for political parties to pick their candidates for the state's 8th Congressional District seat. That would be followed by a general election -- likely in June, according to the governor. The winner will head to Congress for the rest of Giffords' term, which ends in January 2013. "Her recovery has been nothing less than a miracle," said Brewer. "Who knows what's going to happen in the next two years? I don't believe we've seen the last of Gabby Giffords." Before she steps down, Giffords will attend the State of the Union address Tuesday in Washington, her office said. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, the Democratic National Committee chair, told CNN that Giffords -- a close friend -- came to the conclusion that she couldn't devote her full energies to both her job and her recovery. The congresswoman's recent return to Tucson for the one-year anniversary of the January 8 shooting showed her "how challenging it would be. It came into focus then," Wasserman Schultz said. "This decision is really quintessential Gabby Giffords," she added. "She needed to step aside for herself, so that her constituents could get full-time representation. She cares about them so much, that was her No. 1 priority -- taking care of them." President Barack Obama was effusive in his praise for Giffords, saying she "embodies the very best of what public service should be." He added that her "cheerful presence will be missed in Washington (and) she will remain an inspiration to all whose lives she touched -- myself included." "Over the last year, Gabby and her husband Mark have taught us the true meaning of hope in the face of despair, determination in the face of terrible odds, and now -- even after she's come so far -- Gabby shows us what it means to be selfless as well," Obama said in a written statement. In her website video posted Sunday, Giffords says her public service career has not ended. "I will return, and we will work together for Arizona and this great country," she says. Earlier this month, Giffords joined thousands for a vigil in Tucson, one of several emotional events to mark one year since the shootings. In addition to those killed, 13 people were wounded in the attack. Giffords' right side remains weak. She has made few public appearances since the incident, with some rare exceptions, such as casting a vote in Congress to raise the federal debt ceiling and conducting an interview with ABC's Diane Sawyer. She has been undergoing intensive rehabilitation in Houston, but returned to Tucson several times, according to her office. Prosecutors accuse Jared Lee Loughner, 23, of carrying out the attack, which purportedly targeted Giffords. Loughner could face the death penalty if convicted on charges of killing six people -- including the chief federal judge of Arizona, John Roll. Loughner has been diagnosed as schizophrenic and has spent time on suicide watch while in custody. He is undergoing treatment in Springfield, Missouri. A federal appeals court in May cleared the way for him to be forcibly medicated, over the objections of Loughner and his attorney. Giffords worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers and as CEO of El Campo Tire, her family's business, before being elected to the Arizona House of Representatives in 2000. Two years later, she became the youngest woman elected to the Arizona State Senate. She won a November 2006 election to Congress, and has won two terms since. Kelly, her husband, is a retired Navy captain and astronaut. CNN's Paul Vercammen, Deirdre Walsh, Tom Cohen and Dana Bash contributed to this report.
Just as the Netscape IPO inaugurated the dotcom mania of the 90s, so Facebook's imminent IPO will trigger a hysteria with the social web. But the most interesting question isn't whether Facebook is actually worth $100 billion or how many billions of dollars Mark Zuckerberg will personally bank -- but whether or not Facebook really will make the world a better place for its close to a billion users. Zuckerberg certainly thinks it will. "Facebook was not originally created to be a company. It was built to accomplish a social mission -- to make the world more open and connected," he wrote in a letter to shareholders that Facebook filed with the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission yesterday. This social mission, Zuckerberg explained, has been designed to give people a voice, to change how society is organized and to bring us closer together as a species. Zuckerberg isn't alone in seeing Facebook as a major engine of historical progress that will "build real value for the world". As Larry Summers, the former U.S. treasury secretary, notes about the Facebook offering, it's "an American milestone" and Zuckerberg's company has the same historical significance as Ford or IBM. And just as Ford pioneered the mass-produced motor car and IBM helped develop the personal computer, so Facebook is (re)inventing the internet, transforming it from a solitary experience for anonymous individuals into a shared, social world. Reid Hoffman, the Silicon Valley super-connector who introduced Zuckerberg to his first investor, calls this new world "Web 3.0," describing it as a place of "real identities generating massive amounts of data." That data is, of course, all the personal details about ourselves -- the billions of photos, updates and videos that we post narcissistically on our Facebook pages. That data is us. We -- you and I -- are the company's real product, the oil of our Web 3.0 age. Facebook aggregates and stores all our personal data and then sells access to it to advertisers. That is Facebook's creepy business model and it's why the seven-year-old company realized $3.71 billion of revenue in 2011. "You've only got one identity," Zuckerberg once remarked with his typical naivety about the human condition. And, of course, he wants to own that identity, even going as far as to develop a product called Timeline which, quite literally, establishes an official narrative of our lives on his social network. Rather than being just another highly-trafficked website, Facebook's goal is become the operating system for the entire social web. Through its Social Graph technology, Facebook has introduced apps that allow us to tell our friends what movies we are watching, what books we are reading and what music we are listening to. As Time magazine explained when it made Zuckerberg its 2010 Person of the Year, his goal is to transform the internet into a well-lit dorm room in which "wherever you go online, you'll see your friends." And, of course, your friends -- not to mention your parents, employers, teachers and everyone else online -- will see you. They'll see you whatever you are doing and thinking and wherever you have been and will go. The impact of Facebook on our privacy is deeply worrying. I've argued that all this sharing is a trap, designed to tear open our lives. Many other people are now worrying about Facebook's cult of radical transparency and its willful disregard for privacy. Vivianne Reding, the European commissioner for justice, is even seeking to establish a "right to forget" law which makes you and I, rather than Facebook, the masters of our own personal data. Zuckerberg's strategy to promote his IPO is to present Facebook as a technology company that exists for the public good. "There is a huge need and a huge opportunity to get everyone in the world connected, to give everyone a voice and to help transform society for the future," he wrote in the SEC letter. But this is a fallacy. Facebook is a privately owned, for profit enterprise that exists for the benefit of its shareholders and employees. Connectivity benefits the company rather than us. Openness, we need to always remember, is a self-serving Silicon Valley ideology rather than a self-evident public good. So forget whether or not Facebook is really worth $75 or $100 billion. Ignore all the hocus-pocus about "floats" and how Wall Street bankers really value Facebook. The real value of Facebook lies in whether all this radical transparency will make the world a better place. Many think it will, arguing that Facebook and its "internet of people" will deepen our democracy and make the world a more open place. I doubt it will. The 1996 Netscape IPO led to the great stock market collapse of April 2000. But I fear that the 2012 Facebook IPO could lead to a much more human collapse. I worry about the disappearance of core values such as privacy, solitude and secrecy in our Web 3.0 world. So what's at stake here goes beyond economics. It gets to the very core of what it means to be human in our ubiquitously networked age. Drowning in a tsunami of sharing . Whether or not Facebook realizes its imperial dream of becoming the operating system of our Web 3.0 world, there's no doubt that social networks and social media companies are dramatically changing the internet's architecture and its economy. On Tuesday evening, I attended the Crunchies, Silicon Valley's annual Oscar-style award ceremony, which were held in San Francisco's appropriately transparent Davies Symphony Hall. And while Facebook failed to win any awards, its specter -- or, at least, the specter of social media -- hung heavily over the event. For better or worse, you see, everything and everyone inside Silicon Valley is going social. Indeed, given the visibility of social media companies at the awards, the Crunchies could have been renamed the Socials. Almost every award went to a social company or entrepreneur. Best New Start-up was won by the social pinboard network Pinterest. Founder of the year went to Twitter Chairman Jack Dorsey, while Twitter itself won the Biggest Social Impact award. The Angel Investor award went to Silicon Valley's most social investor, Reid Hoffman, and the winner of CEO of the Year award was LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner. The Facebook social game Words with Friends won the "Best Time Sink" award, and Best International Start-Up award went to the Brazilian social commerce Peixe Urbano. Google + was awarded the Best Social Application, the photography sharing site Fotopedia won Best Tablet Application, the social network Path 2.0 won Best Design award and the gay social network Grindr won Best Location Application. The legendary Kleiner-Perkins venture capitalist John Doerr described social as the third great wave of technological innovation, after the invention of the personal computer and the internet. Doerr's wave is about to engulf all of us. Are you ready to be drowned in an online tsunami of sharing? Introspection versus incessant updates . One response to all the self-promotional noise of the social web came this week from a most unexpected source. Susan Cain is the author of the new book "Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking." And "Quiet," which is one of the hottest selling books in America right now and was featured as the Time cover story this week, is a reminder of the importance of introspection and solitude in our Facebook, Google+ and Twitter age of incessant updates, retweets, likes and pokes. Amidst all the hype of his IPO, I hope Zuckerberg has the opportunity to sit down and read the excellent "Quiet." It may inspire him to think more critically about his "social mission" and the real value of giving everyone a "voice" to talk about themselves. â€¢ Follow @ajkeen on Twitter . The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Andrew Keen .
(CNN)The family of Ashley Summers may have reason to be hopeful again. In May 2013, when police discovered three young women who had been imprisoned inside a nondescript Cleveland home for nearly a decade, Summers' family and law enforcement hoped one of the women would be Ashley, who disappeared in Cleveland around the same time as the other women. But the discovery turned out to be unrelated to Ashley's case and there was no new information about her whereabouts. But nearly eight years since she was last seen or heard from, the family's optimism has been restored by an unlikely discovery her step-grandmother made on the Rhode Island Most Wanted website in January. An ATM surveillance photo -- released by the Warwick, Rhode Island, Police Department in late October -- depicts an unidentified woman with a familiar face, Special Agent Vicki Anderson of the FBI Cleveland Division said. "This is an incredible lookalike," Anderson said of the photo. The resemblance to Ashley, who would now be 21, is "strikingly similar," she added. The woman in the photo, along with an unidentified man she appears with, was being sought by Rhode Island police as a suspect in a string of check and identification thefts in Rhode Island and Massachusetts, the FBI said. Ashley's step-grandmother alerted the FBI about the photo, Anderson said. "There's nothing that tells us that it is her, but there's nothing telling us that it's not her either," Anderson said. Still, she considers the surveillance footage to be a breakthrough in the case, given that the FBI has found no legitimate sightings or social media activity by Ashley since she disappeared on July 6, 2007. "It's the best lead we have," Anderson said. "We've had other supposed lookalikes, but nothing that has looked this similar. We consider this a huge tip for us." Because it is not possible to see the license plate of the car the couple was driving, Anderson said the FBI will rely exclusively on help from the public. "The FBI is utilizing a billboard campaign, social media and any news outlet that will air these photos for us," Anderson said. In the 2013 case, two of the missing women had been identified and police said they had disappeared within four years of when Ashley went missing -- and within five blocks of where she was last seen. "At first, when they said the third girl wasn't identified, I was hoping one would be Ashley," Debra Summers, her aunt, told CNN at the time. But the family's nightmare continued. "There is no new information that's come to light about her: Ashley Summers is an active, open investigation," Cleveland Police Deputy Chief Ed Tomba said at the time. "I can assure you that her disappearance was part of our questioning of the three subjects that we brought in."
(Mashable.com) -- Microsoft is announcing today that it has integrated Facebook and Windows Live Messenger into Outlook, bringing the streams of millions of Facebook users into inboxes across the world. Last year, Microsoft launched Outlook Social Connector, a plugin that syncs social networking feeds with your Outlook contacts, giving you immediate data on what they are doing and thinking. It started last year with LinkedIn integration, but soon the company announced MySpace and Facebook were coming. Today, Outlook completes the cycle with not only Facebook integration, but support for Windows Live Messenger as well. Not only that, but the company is releasing the plugin for Outlook 2003 and 2007 users as well, bringing Facebook, MySpace, LinkedIn and Windows Live Messenger to millions of business and personal inboxes worldwide. Last week, we got a sneak peek at the new Outlook at Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, Washington. Here's what you can expect from the new Facebook integration, as well some features that you can expect in the near future: . Facebook + Outlook = Realtime Contact Data . Facebook and Microsoft worked together to get the launch of Facebook's integration in Outlook Social Connector right. Facebook's Strategic Partner Manager Rick Armbrust told us that they worked closely with the Office team to make the experience more social. One of the things he immediately highlighted was the pulling of Facebook profile pictures into Outlook. The entire experience is a step above the Outlook-LinkedIn integration, which itself was pretty strong. Not only does it pull Facebook profile photos so that you can associate a name to a face, but it pulls the news feeds of your contacts into your inbox. When you're looking at someone's e-mail, you'll also get a glance at their status updates, picture uploads and wall posts, among other activities. When you combine that with LinkedIn, MySpace, Windows Live Messenger, and Outlook data, you get a very detailed history of your interaction with your contacts, as well as an at-a-glance look at their activities and interests. Knowing that a potential client just returned from a trip to Hawaii can be all that you need to have the upper hand against your competition. Microsoft Group Product Manager Paco Contreras told us that there's another new feature to the Facebook integration: realtime updates. Thanks to a new update to the social connector platform, also being released today, updates from your contacts will automatically be pushed to your inbox. There's no need to refresh anything: new Facebook status updates will pop up in realtime within Outlook. The Facebook integration does have limitations, though: except for friend requests, Outlook can only pull data from Facebook. There is no "liking" posts or updating your status via Outlook, at least right now. Microsoft says that the next step is to provide a richer social experience by integrating the ability to push data to other social networks, improving the look and feel of Outlook Social Connector, and adding other social networks from other regions. The Social Inbox . Microsoft has known for a while that social technologies are going to dominate the web. That was made evident by its $240 million stake in Facebook and its many partnerships and attempts at social media (some of which have bombed). However, Outlook Social Connector has always felt like one of the company's smarter social media plays. Facebook's Rich Armbrust probably put it best: . "What's unique is that it's bringing social elements and context from Facebook form your colleagues and your friends into the Outlook experience, which is pretty unique given that there are so many that use Outlook as their primary communiction tool." E-mail isn't inherently a "social" experience (it's not a one-to-many platform), and attempts at integrating social into the inbox (think Google Buzz) have mostly fallen flat. However, social data can be incredibly useful in the business world, especially when you need to understand what your client or colleague is thinking or doing right now. While we'd still love to see Twitter integration in Outlook, Facebook is far larger and, in most cases, has far more useful information. Microsoft's also learned a few lessons from the privacy fiascos Facebook and Google have undergone in recent months. Outlook will only pull data from e-mails connected to Facebook accounts. If your business e-mail isn't linked to your Facebook, your data stream won't appear in Outlook Social Connector. It gives users a choice, although most people do choose to add their work e-mails to Facebook in order to join their company's Facebook network. If you want to learn more about the announcement, Microsoft has also released a short video articulating Outlook's new features. © 2010 MASHABLE.com. All rights reserved.
If you plan a stroll along the lanes of the Iowa State Fair, you'll be able to see the usual Butter Cow, the famous Double Ferris Wheel and have more than "60 delectable items on a stick" from 200-plus food vendors. You might even take a selfie with "God Bless America," a 25-foot traveling sculpture depicting Grant Wood's famous "American Gothic." But because of a restrictive ruling from a federal judge on Tuesday, one thing you won't see is Jason Powell on the sidewalk bordering the fairgrounds. On August 15 and 16 of last year, Powell was ejected from a public sidewalk surrounding the fairgrounds as he tried to preach to attendees while holding up a sign proclaiming the Gospel. Powell filed a lawsuit in June of this year, in which he claimed his First and 14th Amendment rights were violated. He says officers removed him from a public sidewalk outside the fairgrounds while he "expressed his Christian beliefs." It's a sidewalk even the defendants admitted was public. In the lawsuit, Powell said officers and troopers with batons and handcuffs surrounded him, demanding that he leave the spot outside a ticket gate. Powell said he chose the spot to make sure his message reached as many people as possible. Powell said he did not solicit money, harass anyone or encourage membership to any organization. He only wanted people to hear and see his message. Powell's attorney is Nate Kellum, president of the Center for Religious Expression. In an e-mail to CNN, Kellum said, "Jason only represents himself and his understanding of Christianity. He tries not to focus on denominational issues. He does not receive support from any group." Powell was issued an ejection notice and was told not to return for the remainder of the fair. Powell said the message he received from authorities at the fair was clear: Powell and his preaching were not welcome at the fair or on the sidewalks surrounding the "greatest state fair in our fair state" of Iowa. "Jason was shocked and dismayed," Kellum said. "He was doing what he believes he is obliged to do according to his faith and has a fundamental right to do according to U.S. Constitution. Being escorted away and told to never come back was demeaning." After Powell received no response to a December 2013 letter asking the commissioner of the Iowa State Patrol and the state's attorney general for assurance that he be allowed to return to the public sidewalks outside the fairgrounds, he filed the federal lawsuit. Judge Robert W. Pratt for the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Iowa ruled that Powell can return only to two areas away from the main gate -- where Kellum said Powell's message won't reach anyone. "We're disappointed and believe the court got it wrong. As it stands, Mr. Powell has no discernible relief," Kellum said. "The only places where he can go on the fairgrounds and share his message are the two spots mentioned by fair officials where there is absolutely no foot traffic. The right to speak encompasses a corresponding right to be heard, and Mr. Powell is being deprived of that fundamental right." Assistant Attorney General David Dorff said Tuesday, "We are pleased that the court recognized the importance of maintaining the safety of people traveling into, out of and around the fair. We look forward to a fun, safe and well-attended fair."
On Tuesday, the United States votes to elect its next president. For Americans, the choice is about which candidate will improve the economy, healthcare, the employment rate and ensure better living standards. However, for Pakistani citizens living in the country's northwest, especially for the 800,000 people in the tribal region of Waziristan, the American election is a question of life and death. Malik Jalal Khan lives in Datta Khel, a small town in North Waziristan, and is an elder of the Mada Khel tribe. He told me that more than 200 people from his tribe have been killed through the CIA-run clandestine drone program in the last seven years. Thanks to Pakistani local channels which translated all three presidential debates into Urdu, Malik Jalal has paid close attention to every word uttered by President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney. Just like these candidates, Malik Jalal is also responsible for the wellbeing of his people. He has to ensure that his tribe's young have stable jobs, children can go to school and sick people are treated in the best possible way. Malik Jalal listened very carefully when Obama said he would further strengthen health care, improve employment, raise taxes on the rich and improve public education. Such promises were doubled by Romney, who said that he would do even better if elected president. This was all good news for Americans voting in the elections. But when it came to matters concerning Malik Jalal and his tribe's people, there was no good news. Both Obama and Romney promised to continue with drone warfare that has targeted northwest Pakistan if elected. This means that Malik Jalal still has to live with the fear that any of his tribe's women, children or men like him are all potential targets, as reports suggest the CIA considers every male of able military age a potential terrorist in North Waziristan . It means his 9-year-old will still not go to school due to fear that his school might be targeted by a drone. It means people will still not attend funerals, have large weddings or conduct their fruit export or mining businesses openly. Drone strikes started under President George Bush but were escalated in real sense by President Obama since he took office in 2009. According to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, more than 3,300 people have been killed in more than 350 drone strikes during the last nine years. So far, according to our estimates, these strikes have only killed 41 of the Al Qaeda-linked individuals who were meant to be the real targets of the drone program. No names are known of all the others killed, and the CIA expects Americans to accept their word that everyone killed in a drone strike is a terrorist posing an imminent threat to the United States of America. In a recent conversation with an American diplomat in Islamabad, I was astonished when he said to me that civilian deaths number only in two digits, according to their records. I was further shocked when I asked him if he knows about independent sources that report on civilian deaths such as the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, or the recent report compiled by Stanford and New York universities. The diplomat looked completely lost. Why do American presidents love drone technology? The obvious answer lies in American politics. Any president at war cannot afford large numbers of American soldiers coming back in coffins. But the U.S. would like to keep its hegemony, and drone technology makes this dream a reality. Now the U.S. can wage war anywhere in world without putting American troops on ground, and the resulting loss of political capital. Drone warfare is also keeping the very strong American defense lobby happy and busy with new technology. But Malik Jalal tells me this does not work for him, his people and certainly not for peace in the region. Policies like drone attacks, extrajudicial murders committed by a state, and covert programs like rendition and secret prisons in timid allied states not only kill people -- they decimate any hope for peace. These killings help extremists recruit more discontented youth. A person in tribal society who has lost his family members in this manner is bound by the Pashtun honor code -- Pashtunwali -- to retaliate and opt for "badal" (revenge or justice). There is growing anti-American sentiment in regions affected by drone attacks and some people are tempted to resort to illegal means when the system does not deliver justice to them. This discontent is spreading among Muslims. Pakistani-born US citizen Faisal Shahzad is one example of this as he cited drones as one reason for his failed attempt to car bomb New York's Times Square. Malik Jalal worries when he listens to war-mongering presidential candidates and wonders if he ever will be successful in preaching peace to his kinsmen if the opponent has only contempt, and a message of death for his people. Malik Jalal wishes that Waziris were also able to vote in American elections.
Vaccines that can be quickly produced to fight evolving diseases such as AIDS, flu and the common cold. Algae that can be engineered to turn carbon dioxide into gasoline and diesel fuel. These are among the innovations that could result from the research of J. Craig Venter's team, which announced last week that it had created "the first cell that is totally controlled by a synthetic chromosome." Venter, a leader in the sequencing of the human genome, also hinted at another, more basic and less immediately practical, reason for creating synthetic life. He explained that scientists had embedded in the genetic code of the new cell three quotations, including this one from physicist Richard Feynman: "What I cannot build, I cannot understand." To understand life really, the quotation suggests, it's necessary to know how to create it. In a video announcing the breakthrough that was posted at TED.com, Venter describes a 15-year-long quest that ended with creation of "the first self-replicating species that we've had on the planet whose parent is a computer." Scientists did it by designing a digital code on a computer, building a chromosome "from four bottles of chemicals," assembling the chromosome in yeast cells and transplanting it into the cell of a bacterium, creating a new species. For more about Venter, click here . Venter said before the work was done, a team of experts conducted a two-year study of the ethics of creating life in a laboratory. He said the White House and other government officials have been briefed about the work -- and that White House officials favored open publication of the research, rather than deciding to classify it. The work of Venter's team has been widely hailed. The Economist said it creates the possibility of demonstrating "mankind's mastery over nature in a way more profound than even the detonation of the first atomic bomb." Yet it warned, "No one now knows how easy it would be to turbo-charge an existing human pathogen, or take one that infects another type of animal and assist its passage over the species barrier. We will soon find out, though." Venter pointed to the "extensive work that we've done, asking for ethical review, pushing the envelope on that side as well as the technical side, this has been broadly discussed in the scientific community, in the policy community and at the highest levels of the federal government." "Even with this announcement, as we did in 2003 -- that work was funded by the Department of Energy -- so the work was reviewed at the level of the White House, trying to decide whether to classify the work or publish it. And they came down on the side of open publication, which is the right approach. We've briefed the White House. We've briefed members of Congress. We've tried to take and push the policy issues in parallel with the scientific advances." For another talk by Venter, click here . He said the three quotations were embedded in the genetic code to help make sure that the new synthetic form of life couldn't be mistaken for regular life. Scientists inserted the names of more than 40 authors of the research but wanted to add something "more profound than just signing the work." In addition to the Feynman quote, the code contains this quote from James Joyce: "To live, to err, to fall, to triumph, and to recreate life out of life." And this one, from "American Prometheus," a biography of scientist Robert Oppenheimer: "See things, not as they are, but as they might be."
President Obama visited a local bookstore in Washington Saturday and offered a quick assessment of a new book out about his time in the White House. "The Stranger: Barack Obama in the White House" is a book from NBC host and former White House correspondent Chuck Todd. It was sitting behind the register at Politics & Prose -- a bookstore in a Washington neighborhood north of the White House. His visit coincided with the White House effort to promote shopping locally on "Small Business Saturday." The President visited the store on the same day last year. Shoppers at the store crowded around as Obama and his two daughters, Malia and Sasha, bought a basketful of books. But it was Todd's book that caught the President's eye, especially the cover -- a pensive profile shot of Obama. "Lets see what Chuck has to say," said Obama as he leaned closer to the book, guessing from the title and cover that the book was about the President being "sad." "Looks like a sad book," Malia said, joking with her father. It was a friendly crowd but one shopper did yell out, "I hope you can close Guantanamo." The President had a quick response that brought laughter from the crowd, "We're working on it ... any other issues?" The Obamas bought a variety of books, and the President told the cashier that some of them were Christmas presents. The White House provided a list of the President's purchases to the press, but Chuck Todd's book was not on it. Some highlights from the list include books geared towards kids including "I Spy," "Junie B. Jones and a Little Monkey Business," by Barbara Park, "Brown Girl Dreaming," by Jacqueline Woodson and the Redwall series by Brian Jacques. There also were books for adult readers including Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness," "Being Mortal: Medicine and What Matters in the End" by Atul Gawande, and "Age of Ambition: Chasing Fortune, Truth and Faith in the New China" by Evan Osnos.
Hours before 22 U.S. embassies and consulates were to close for a day, top U.S. security officials reviewed the situation that led to the unprecedented move. A U.S. global travel alert remained in place amid fears that al Qaeda may launch attacks in the Middle East, North Africa and beyond in coming weeks. The threat prompted the United States to announce that 22 facilities would be closed on Sunday, including in Yemen, which was a focus of concern. A Saturday afternoon meeting included the White House chief of staff, Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, as well as the heads of Homeland Security, the National Security Agency, the FBI and CIA and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. President Barack Obama was briefed after the meeting, according to the White House. On Saturday, the security around the U.S. embassy in Yemen was even tighter than last year when the embassy was raided by protesters. At least 12 tanks were stationed within 500 meters of the building. Hundreds of additional security forces were deployed, and roads leading to the embassy were closed. Checkpoints were set up at a distance from the embassy, and trucks weren't allowed to pass anywhere near the main embassy road. Yemen's special forces, the most elite, were seen in small numbers near the embassy, as well. Meanwhile, Britain, France and Germany have said they, too, will close their embassies in the Yemeni capital, Sanaa, on Sunday and Monday for security reasons. No other embassies are affected, they said. Neither Italy nor Spain -- which has no embassy in Yemen -- planned to close any of their embassies. The U.S. embassies closed on Sunday -- a day they would normally be open -- stretch across a swath of North Africa and the Middle East, from Mauritania to Oman. Bangladesh and Afghanistan, both majority Muslim nations, also are affected. The U.S. government's actions are in response to growing intelligence that shows a potential for attacks in Yemen and elsewhere in the Middle East and North Africa, said U.S. officials who spoke to CNN on condition of not being identified. Official: Security tightened in Yemen . "The threat appears to be much worse than it has (been) in a long time," said a senior national security official in Yemen, where the government is "on high alert against possible attacks in the days to come." Various Western targets -- not just those tied to the United States -- are under threat, two U.S. officials said. Three sources said the United States has information that members of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula are in the final stages of planning for an unspecified attack. One of the sources said such preparations appeared to have increased in recent days with the approaching end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. Sunday is Laylet al-Qadr, or the Night of Power, one of the holiest moments on the Muslim calendar. Said one U.S. official: "It all leads us to believe something could happen in the near future." What's behind timing of terror threat . Christopher Hill, a former U.S. ambassador to Iraq, told CNN he had never seen embassy closures ordered across such a broad area. "There have been incidents where they've closed down a number of embassies in the Middle East because the information is not specific enough to say that 'embassy X' got to be closed as opposed to other embassies," said Hill, who joined the U.S. Foreign Service in 1977. "But I think this, closing all of these embassies in the Middle East to North Africa, is in fact unprecedented. At least, I didn't see this during my career." 'Leave Yemen now' U.S. officials said that, based on intelligence, they were particularly concerned about the U.S. Embassy in Yemen between Saturday and Tuesday.  President Barack Obama, amid regular updates on the situation, has directed officials to take all appropriate steps to protect Americans. A White House official said the president was updated Saturday morning by Lisa Monaco, his assistant for homeland security and counterterrorism. Obama, who departed for Joint Base Andrews to play golf, is being updated through the weekend, the official said. He praised Yemeni President Abdo Rabu Mansour Hadi for his country's efforts following a meeting Thursday at the White House. The UK Foreign Office has also warned its citizens against travel to Yemen, and urged British nationals to leave as soon as possible. "If you don't leave the country now while commercial carriers are still flying it is extremely unlikely that the British government will be able to evacuate you or provide consular assistance," it said. Photos: Attacks on U.S. diplomatic sites . It was unclear whether the apparent plot targets that Arabian nation or one elsewhere -- which is why the travel alert applies so broadly, and why embassies from Bangladesh to Libya are being closed. Nor is the expected time of an attack known, which explains why the U.S. travel alert extends through August. "Terrorists may elect to use a variety of means and weapons and target both official and private interests," the alert states. "U.S. citizens are reminded of the potential for terrorists to attack public transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure." New York Rep. Peter King, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, called the information "the most specific I've seen." While the principal attention is on the Arabian Peninsula, he stressed  to CNN's Wolf Blitzer that "we can't rule anything out." "We are focused on the Middle East, but it's a potential series of attacks that really could be almost anyplace," King said. 22 embassies, consulates ordered closed . The State Department listed the 22 embassies and consulates that are closed Sunday, which is normally the start of the work week in the countries affected. The 17 affected U.S. embassies are in Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Mauritania, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Sudan and Yemen. The U.S. Embassy in Israel will be closed as normal Sunday. See the whole list . Consulates in Iraq, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are also being shut for the day. Embassies and consulates in the region typically close or operate with minimal staff on Fridays and Saturdays. The shutdowns could extend beyond Sunday, a senior State Department official said. Retired Gen. James Mattis -- who until earlier this year was head of U.S. Central Command, responsible for a 20-country area that includes the Middle East -- said the decision to close the embassies underscores the reality of the threat and the wisdom of U.S. policymakers. U.S. embassies have been targeted before in places such as Yemen, Turkey and Tanzania, he pointed out. Moreover, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is one of the terrorist network's most active and most destructive branches. "We have to remember that we're up against an enemy who kills indiscriminately -- whether it be women, children, diplomats -- and our embassies ... have been one of the targets," Mattis told CNN on Friday. Referring to the move by U.S. officials, he said, "They are showing some proactive discretion here, making certain that we don't give the enemy an opportunity that we can deny them." Meanwhile, Canada shuttered for one day its diplomatic mission in Bangladesh on Saturday. Questions, concerns after Benghazi . House leaders have been briefed, Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi told reporters, adding that the travel alert and embassy closings provided "some understanding of the seriousness of the threat." King, who has also heard such briefings, applauded the government's decision to close its diplomatic missions. "I give them credit," the Republican said of the Obama administration. "I think the government is doing exactly the right thing here." Such bipartisan agreement in Washington comes at a time when politicians are still scrutinizing the September 11, 2012, attack on the U.S. consular compound in Benghazi, Libya, which killed four Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. Since then, Republicans have been pressing Obama's administration for answers, with some accusing officials of covering up what happened in Benghazi and not doing enough to track down the attackers. Eight GOP lawmakers are asking that incoming FBI Director James Comey brief Congress within 30 days about the investigation. They say the administration's inquiry to date has been "simply unacceptable," according to a draft letter obtained by CNN. Earlier this week, Vice President Joe Biden and senior State Department officials went to Congress to discuss embassy security. Biden also briefed congressional leadership, key committee chairmen and ranking members about the latest threat concerns, a source who attended the meeting said. Another official said the recent intelligence might not have warranted such a response before the Benghazi attack, which created a political firestorm for the administration. On Thursday, State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said the agency was taking the steps out of an abundance of caution. CNN found embassy attack suspect before FBI .
A collection of wills reveals Karl Marx died a poor man and Charles Darwin left behind a large estate, an ancestry website said Wednesday. The England and Wales National Probate Calendar, 1861-1941, reveals the value of more than 6 million estates, including some left by famous people. It was published online Wednesday for the first time by Ancestry.co.uk. The records show the anti-capitalist Marx died in 1883 leaving 250 pounds (23,000 pounds today) -- $395 ($36,000 today) -- to his youngest daughter, Eleanor. The famous Antarctic explorer Ernest Shackleton left even less on his death in 1922 -- just 556 pounds (20,000 pounds today) -- $878 ($31,600 today). The website said he lost his fortune in failed money-making schemes while allegedly trying to recapture the adventure of his youth. Darwin, by contrast, left a personal estate worth 146,911 pounds (around 13 million pounds today) -- $232,000 ($20.5 million today) -- when he died in 1882, the website said. "Probate" refers to the court's authority to adminster a deceased person's estate. That power lay with the church until 1857, when the state took it over and began putting together the records published Wednesday, Ancestry.co.uk said. The records show the average value of a person's will during the period was 3,400 pounds ($5,363), with some wills leaving as little as 10 pounds ($15.75), the website said. Entries also reveal details about the fate of the deceased, such as Edward John Smith, captain of the Titanic. His will says he was "lost at sea," along with passengers Bejamin Guggenheim and John Astor, and the ship's builder, Thomas Andrews. The wills show John Cadbury, who created the eponymous chocolate empire, left a personal estate of 43,773 pounds (around 4.2 million pounds today) -- $69,000 ($6.6 million) -- when he died in 1889. Several famous authors left substantial estates when they died, according to the records. Charles Dickens, author of Oliver Twist and Great Expectations, left "effects under 80,000 pounds" (around 7.1 million pounds today) -- $126,000 ($11.2 million today) -- when he died in 1870. The author of the Sherlock Holmes detective stories, Arthur Conan Doyle, died in 1931 with 63,491 pounds (3,000,000 pounds today) -- $100,000 ($4.7 million today). A smaller but still notable amount was in the estate left by Lewis Carroll, who wrote Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. He died in 1898 leaving 4,145 pounds (450,000 pounds today) -- $6,500 ($710,000 today). The database can be useful to those researching their family history, helping them learn more about their relative's social standing and worldly possessions, Ancestry.co.uk said. In addition to the estate's value, each entry may also include the name of the deceased person, the date and place of their death, and, in some cases, bequest recipients.
Question: What do George Clooney, Chaka Khan, the American Medical Association, Bon Jovi and C. Everett Koop have in common? Answer: They are among the 500 names on the National Rifle Association's absurd new "enemies list." Richard Nixon would be embarrassed to find that his once sinister form of score-keeping has been revived so promiscuously by the NRA. But there is some redeeming social value here: The list illustrates an organization that has become hermetically sealed from society at large, so caught up in conservative debates that it has forgotten how to connect with Main Street America. The enemies list was first posted on the NRA's website in mid-September, hiding in plain sight under the banner "National Organizations with Anti-Gun Policies." But with the debate about reasonable gun restrictions reignited after the Sandy Hook Elementary School slaughter, the NRA's enemies list has become just the latest example of seriously bad judgment inside this once proud organization. Because whatever staffer was tasked with accumulating the list took the idea of "you're either with us or against us" so literally that everyone who isn't a card-carrying conservative seems to be counted as an enemy. The list is divided into broad categories, including "Anti-Gun Individuals and Celebrities," journalists, civic organizations and corporations -- as well as a grab bag category that includes religious leaders. You don't have to be a charter member of Mensa to see how this is going to alienate far more Americans than it attracts. We're living in a celebrity-driven culture, for better or worse, so let's start with a look at the celebrity list. The first thing that struck me was the preponderance of '70s sitcom stars who are apparently among the leading threats to gun rights in America today, including Sandy Duncan, Marilu Henner, Ed Asner, Hal Linden and Pam Dawber of "Mork & Mindy" fame. It's like the list-maker was locked in a closet full of yellowing TV Guides. It's a near-miracle that "The Partridge Family" was left off the list. But the NRA doesn't seem content to limit its targets to old reruns of "The Hollywood Squares" -- no, it has to go and bring Sean Connery into the fight, along with Bruce Springsteen, Albert Brooks, Tony Bennett, Jack Nicholson, Britney Spears, Jerry Seinfeld and Oprah Winfrey. On the civic side, it sees fit to call out everyone from Dick Parsons to Maya Angelou to (the late) Ed Koch to Michael Eisner. You might as well declare yourself the sworn enemy of anyone who doesn't subscribe to National Review. This idea gets thrown into even sharper relief when you look at a partial list of civic, charitable and religious organizations that the NRA has determined are "anti-gun." Warning: Take a deep breath before reading aloud: . • AARP; . • AFL-CIO; . • American Medical Association; . • American Bar Association; . • American Jewish Committee; . • Anti-Defamation League; . • B`nai B`rith; . • Children`s Defense Fund; . • Environmental Action Foundation; . • Episcopal Church; . • Lauder Foundation; . • League of Women Voters of the United States; . • National Association of Police Organizations; . • National Coalition Against Domestic Violence; . • National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; . • National Council of La Raza; . • National Urban League; . • National Spinal Cord Injury Association; . • Southern Christian Leadership Conference; . • U.S. Catholic Conference; . • United Methodist Church; . • United Church of Christ; . • U.S. Conference of Mayors; . • and the YWCA of the USA. I ask this in all seriousness: Who's left? Because the list includes just about every major American faith group and denomination, every major ethnic group and voter constituency. And adding the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence and National Spinal Cord Injury Association to the list of anti-gun enemies is either clueless or callous -- or both. One of my favorite lyrics by U2 says: "Choose your enemies carefully, 'cause they will define you." The NRA, like too much of the conservative movement, has chosen its enemies indiscriminately and seems defined in opposition to most of modern America. This is a byproduct of polarization, the cultlike expulsion of any dissenting voices and preoccupation with ideological purity. In the case of the NRA, this is reflected in its reversal on policies it supported in the past, such as gun-free school zones and universal background checks. But it is also reflected in tone-deaf speeches such as the ones recently delivered by Wayne LaPierre, or the truly out-of-touch television ad the NRA produced calling President Barack Obama an "elitist hypocrite" for having the Secret Service guard his two daughters at school. The essence of evangelism is winning converts -- but that goal can be easily forgotten when you're preoccupied with playing to the base. Reasonable advocates of Second Amendment rights are being ill-served by the organization's recalcitrant radicalism -- reflected in the fact that 74% of NRA members say they support universal background checks. Adding an indiscriminate enemies list to the NRA website only highlights its isolation, consolidating opposition among the figures mentioned and their fans. As legendary columnist Jimmy Breslin -- also a Nixon enemies list alumnus -- remarked when his name was found on the new NRA document, "Put me first on the list." This defiance is a very American response to such an awkward attempt to intimidate. The NRA enemies list will backfire badly. And then maybe its absurd excess will provoke a needed reset inside the organization, providing a timely reminder that the politics of addition are always more effective than the politics of division. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of John Avlon.
(CNN)The Palestinian Authority officially became the 123rd member of the International Criminal Court on Wednesday, a step that gives the court jurisdiction over alleged crimes in Palestinian territories. The formal accession was marked with a ceremony at The Hague, in the Netherlands, where the court is based. The Palestinians signed the ICC's founding Rome Statute in January, when they also accepted its jurisdiction over alleged crimes committed "in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, since June 13, 2014." Later that month, the ICC opened a preliminary examination into the situation in Palestinian territories, paving the way for possible war crimes investigations against Israelis. As members of the court, Palestinians may be subject to counter-charges as well. Israel and the United States, neither of which is an ICC member, opposed the Palestinians' efforts to join the body. But Palestinian Foreign Minister Riad al-Malki, speaking at Wednesday's ceremony, said it was a move toward greater justice. "As Palestine formally becomes a State Party to the Rome Statute today, the world is also a step closer to ending a long era of impunity and injustice," he said, according to an ICC news release. "Indeed, today brings us closer to our shared goals of justice and peace." Judge Kuniko Ozaki, a vice president of the ICC, said acceding to the treaty was just the first step for the Palestinians. "As the Rome Statute today enters into force for the State of Palestine, Palestine acquires all the rights as well as responsibilities that come with being a State Party to the Statute. These are substantive commitments, which cannot be taken lightly," she said. Rights group Human Rights Watch welcomed the development. "Governments seeking to penalize Palestine for joining the ICC should immediately end their pressure, and countries that support universal acceptance of the court's treaty should speak out to welcome its membership," said Balkees Jarrah, international justice counsel for the group. "What's objectionable is the attempts to undermine international justice, not Palestine's decision to join a treaty to which over 100 countries around the world are members." In January, when the preliminary ICC examination was opened, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described it as an outrage, saying the court was overstepping its boundaries. The United States also said it "strongly" disagreed with the court's decision. "As we have said repeatedly, we do not believe that Palestine is a state and therefore we do not believe that it is eligible to join the ICC," the State Department said in a statement. It urged the warring sides to resolve their differences through direct negotiations. "We will continue to oppose actions against Israel at the ICC as counterproductive to the cause of peace," it said. But the ICC begs to differ with the definition of a state for its purposes and refers to the territories as "Palestine." While a preliminary examination is not a formal investigation, it allows the court to review evidence and determine whether to investigate suspects on both sides. Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said her office would "conduct its analysis in full independence and impartiality." The war between Israel and Hamas militants in Gaza last summer left more than 2,000 people dead. The inquiry will include alleged war crimes committed since June. The International Criminal Court was set up in 2002 to prosecute genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. CNN's Vasco Cotovio, Kareem Khadder and Faith Karimi contributed to this report.
Port-au-Prince, Haiti (CNN)  -- High in the hills above the Haitian capital, artist Levoy Exil paints at his terrace studio. The man who began a career using beets, carrots, tomatoes and black beans for paint creates vibrant abstractions of life and nature. A year ago, he infused a celestial oil painting with hues of purplish red -- symbolizing blood -- after he gazed outward and for a moment the verdant landscape turned to black. He knew then that something bad was coming. He saw the blood he had imagined on the streets of Port-au-Prince on January 12 when the earth heaved and 150,000 people perished. It's now apparent that among the earthquake's widespread destruction were museums, galleries and other places that contained Haiti's artistic treasures, including Exil's work. They were a troubled nation's legacy, a key source of economic trade with the rest of the world -- and undeniable symbols of hope. Lost, perhaps, forever. The earthquake's blow to Haitian art is staggering: The Centre d'Art, which launched the Haitian arts movement in the 1940s, is severely damaged. The Musee d'Art Nader, which housed more than 12,000 pieces from the largest private collection in Haiti, collapsed. Murals in the Trinity Cathedral, assembled by some of Haiti's best-known artists, came crashing down. "There is no art museum run by the government of Haiti," said Georges Nader Jr., who runs a gallery near the Nader museum opened by his father. "This is for me like patrimony for Haiti. We were holding this collection for future generations. What will happen now? I don't know." The significance of art in Haiti may be hard for outsiders to understand. But with few functioning institutions, few outlets of expression, Haiti's brightly colored depictions -- some laced with spiritual traditions of voodoo culture -- of sun and sea, people and animals serve as memory for a country that has suffered under dictatorships and failed governments and is today the poorest in the Americas. With unemployment as high as 85 percent and a majority of Haitians reeling in abject poverty, art has also emerged as an economic lifeline. "They're painting their lives. They're recording their history," said Camille Scully, executive director of Iowa's Waterloo Center for the Arts and co-president of the Haitian Art Society. "And they're very accessible because of the colors and style. Everyone who sees Haitian art tends to buy it because they respond to it." Scully said efforts are under way to enlist conservationists to help Haiti, and a flurry of e-mails shared by collectors, curators, gallery owners and other interested parties show the urgency people are feeling to support the arts community. One key figure who's been weighing in on the need to save what can be saved is Gerald Alexis, a leading Haitian art historian, critic and curator. Haiti has a long enough history of not conserving its art, Alexis said from his Quebec City, Quebec, home. An earthquake in colonial times, fires and hurricanes, as wells as riots, revolutions and government-mandated raids of voodoo temples, destroyed much of the creativity that pre-dated the 1940s artistic boom. For this reason, salvaging art, including the oldest piece in Haiti -- an 1822 painting buried in the national palace -- matters. Haiti's art "will tell future generations who they are and where they come from," Alexis said. "It's our heritage. And although people think that in poor countries such concepts are unnecessary, they are indeed the only thing we have. Our cultural heritage is our pride." In Port-au-Prince, Nader has been frantically trying to rescue the thousands of pieces his father lovingly collected over four decades. Among the masters: Hector Hyppolite. Philome Obin. Prefete Duffaut. Wilson Bigaud. Nader pulled out an oil-on-cardboard floral still-life painted by Hyppolite in 1945 that now looks more like a jigsaw puzzle with pieces missing. Some of the artworks housed in the Centre d'Arts, which was in a wooden structure, will be more repairable, he said. What do you do when cement gouges cardboard or canvas? "This? Only cement can do this," he said, picking up some of his punctured pieces. On the day of the quake, Nader's 79-year-old parents were in their bedroom on the top floor of the building that houses the museum. They were pulled from the rubble after the museum collapsed. Nader could not hold back tears when he thought of the suffering around him and stopped the conversation to recompose himself. The cultural loss can hardly compare. "At that time, the paintings were my last concern," he continued. "There were lives at stake." But since then, he has been going back to the rubble every day to salvage what he can. He knows he has to -- for the sake of his country. On the second floor of his gallery, he and his staff have been collecting damaged pieces, their vibrant colors dulled by the dust. "This is like a hospital for paintings," he said, watching his staff strip off frames and backings. He picked up a damaged portrait of a fruit vendor by Antonio Joseph. He grew to manhood looking at the painting on his bedroom wall. It's one of his favorites. So far, Nader has rescued about 1,000 pieces; 70 percent need restoration. That was one room in the museum. Kent Shankle, the curator for Iowa's Waterloo Center for the Arts, which houses the largest public collection of Haitian art in the United States, said he hopes there is a silver lining to the tragedy. "Hopefully this is raising awareness and shedding light on both the beauty of Haiti and its people, as well as the incredible needs there," he said. And, perhaps it will fuel a new wave of art that reveals the resilience of people here. "We've survived. It's a blessing," said artist Jean Louis Maxan. Maxan depicted Jean-Bertrand Aristide's exit from Haiti in 2004, an acrylic-on-canvas painting of "American Air" waiting to take the disgraced president away. Now, he said, he will paint people screaming, piles of bodies and tents blanketing the city's open spaces. High above the misery, Exil, too, said he will paint again. When nature tells him it is right. "It's a great loss for all of us," Exil said of the earthquake. "But life continues and we will continue to create." He will rely on the lush, undulating landscape before him. The sun and the moon. And the distant sea. He will make beauty blossom from the ugliness below. For the future of Haiti. CNN's Moni Basu reported from Port-au-Prince, Haiti. CNN's Jessica Ravitz reported from Atlanta, Georgia.
"12 Years a Slave" and "American Hustle" are on top of the Globes. The two films took home the top prizes at the 2014 Golden Globes Sunday night, winning best motion picture drama ("12 Years") and best comedy or musical motion picture ("Hustle"). The wins thrust the two films into the top positions for the Academy Awards' best picture honor. The Globes are often seen as an Oscar forecaster. Another film, the space thriller "Gravity," also earned an edge, winning best director for Alfonso Cuaron at the Hollywood Foreign Press Association's annual shindig. Short on time? Quick-read list of the winners . "This is for the hundreds of people who made this film possible, and because of my thick accent, they end up doing what they thought I said, not what I said," the Mexican director said to laughs. The Globes tended to spread the wealth this year. "Hustle," based loosely on the Abscam scandal of the late '70s, was the big winner among films, earning two acting honors -- Amy Adams' best actress (comedy or musical) prize and Jennifer Lawrence's best supporting actress trophy -- in addition to the film award. "12 Years," based on a 19th-century slave narrative, won just the drama honor. "Dallas Buyers Club" won two acting honors for motion pictures: Jared Leto's supporting actor prize and -- in a shocker -- Matthew McConaughey's nod for best actor in a drama. Cate Blanchett won the Globe for best actress in a drama (motion picture) for her performance in "Blue Jasmine." She and Adams are now the front-runners for best actress. Leonardo DiCaprio won best actor in a musical or comedy film for his performance in "The Wolf of Wall Street." A number of Twitter users weren't happy with the lack of diversity among the winners. Using the hashtag #notbuyingit, they sounded off: "Winners: white men. Losers: everybody else," wrote In This Together. 5 things we learned from the 2014 Golden Globes . Shockers and surprises . The 71st Annual Globes had its share of shockers, perhaps none bigger than the two awards won by the freshman comedy "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" for best TV series comedy or musical. Star Andy Samberg also won a Globe for his acting in the show. "Oh no! I didn't prepare anything!" he said in genuine surprise. He proceeded to thank "everyone," including, with a smirk, "everyone on my team." But the Globes are known for their unexpected flourishes. After all, the awards do feature an open bar, and the attitude is often much looser in front of the 100 or so members of the HFPA (and the TV audience) than the august Oscar bigwigs at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Ronan Farrow disses estranged dad Woody Allen's Golden Globes tribute . Indeed, there were plenty of other talked-about moments: . -- Diane Keaton finished her presentation of the Cecil B. DeMille Award to Woody Allen by singing a Girl Scout song in a childlike voice. -- A Teleprompter malfunction led to presenters Jonah Hill and Margot Robbie reading their lines off a piece of paper. -- Jacqueline Bisset, who won best supporting actress in a TV series, miniseries or TV movie for her performance in Starz's "Dancing on the Edge," seemed breathless as she accepted the honor, staring at the camera for long seconds. At one point, she tried to put a hold on her emotions by giving herself a pep talk; at another point, she apparently uttered an obscenity. Backstage, Bisset expanded on her remark that forgiving people is "the best beauty treatment." "I think if you get bitter you're really in trouble and it doesn't progress anything," she said. -- Jennifer Lawrence, who won the first award of the evening, was nervous on stage and just as plain-speaking backstage. Asked how she would celebrate, she responded, "I need to catch up on my drinking." -- And "Breaking Bad's" Bryan Cranston, who played the show's meth-mogul protagonist, celebrated two victories -- his and the show's (for best TV series drama), by telling the press he had an interesting night in store. He would, he joked, do some wife-swapping. Best moments and GIFs from the Golden Globes . Amy 'n' Tina . Hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler started the show by picking up where they left off last year. The pair immediately launched into jokes about the snubbed "Lee Daniels' The Butler," Matt Damon and "Gravity," which was about how "George Clooney would rather float into space and die than spend another minute with a woman close to his own age." They were particularly sharp about the often marginalized view of women in Hollywood: Matthew McConaughey losing 45 pounds for "Dallas Buyers Club," or "what actresses call 'being in a movie' "; Meryl Streep's nomination meaning there are still great roles for "Meryl Streeps over 60." Tina Fey and Amy Poehler through the years . Streep was already in the record books. She was nominated for best actress in a comedy or musical for her performance in "August: Osage County," her 28th nomination. She's won eight times, also a record. Poehler had a better night than Streep. She won her first Globe, for best actress in a comedy or musical TV series, and was hilariously nervous as she accepted. "I never win these things!" she exclaimed. Before the show, celebrities made their way down the red carpet at the Beverly Hilton in their finest finery -- dodging some stains left by a sprinkler malfunction. Among the fashion highlights: A revealing Amy Adams (a low-cut gown reminiscent of her outfits in "American Hustle") and Lupita Nyong'o of "12 Years a Slave." Asked whether she felt pressure about choosing a dress, Nyong'o shook her head. "I only wear things that speak to me," she said. E! apologizes for Michael J. Fox 'Fun Fact' during Golden Globes .
Senate Democrats conceded Thursday they don't have the votes to pass the DREAM Act, a bill that would have offered a path to citizenship for some illegal immigrants who entered the United States as children. Democrats voted to pull the measure from consideration, a move that jeopardizes the chances for passing the hotly contested bill during the current lame-duck session of Congress that ends in early January. While supporters say the measure that passed the House on Wednesday could still come up, each passing day reduces the likelihood for introducing and debating the act as legislative leaders battle over priorities in the waning days of the session. Senate Republicans opposed the bill, standing by their pledge to block any legislation during the lame-duck session until the chamber approves bills to extend the Bush tax cuts and fund the government. The so-called Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act would have affected immigrants who entered the United States illegally as children under the age of 16 and have lived in the country for at least five years.  Other requirements include graduating from high-school or obtaining a General Education Development diploma and demonstrating "good moral character." Even then, only a six-year conditional status would be awarded. Before moving to the next phase, the students would need to meet additional requirements -- attending college or serving in the military for at least two years, and passing criminal background checks. Proponents, including President Barack Obama and Democratic leaders, say the bill offers legal standing to young people brought to the United States who have bettered themselves and served their new country, while opponents claim it is a form of amnesty for illegal immigrants. A White House statement Thursday praised Senate Democratic leaders for pulling the bill so that the chamber can take up the version passed by the House. Noting that eight House Republicans voted with Democrats to pass the measure, the statement by Press Secretary Robert Gibbs said the proposal "should get bipartisan support in the Senate as well, and in light of the vote in the House, this is the right way to move forward to get that." Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Illinois, a major supporter of the DREAM Act, said Thursday that "we now have the weekend and into next week to launch a national mobilization to get the votes to enact this important bill." CNN's Craig Broffmann and Ted Barrett contributed to this report.
Joe Palese took his first yoga class in the 1990s, right as the practice began gaining in popularity in the United States. "They didn't even have any yoga mats," he said, recalling the New York sports club that offered the class. It wasn't until Palese started taking classes at yoga studios that he realized a lot of the previous sessions were "watered down" versions of yoga. The loose interpretation wasn't bothersome; yoga by definition is a diverse practice with more than a dozen different styles. But as Palese remembers, some of the poses the inexperienced teachers were demonstrating were simply not right. "The instructors were cool people, and they'd play good music, but students didn't know they were being taught poorly," said Palese, who became a yoga instructor himself 14 years ago. And, according to author and New York Times science writer William J. Broad, some of the common yoga poses can cause serious injuries like nerve damage, torn cartilage, and strokes, among others. An article adapted from Broad's upcoming book on yoga featured in the New York Times Sunday Magazine earlier this month with the title "How Yoga Can Wreck Your Body," sparked a lively debate within the yoga community about how to keep practitioners safe. In the article, Broad noted that yoga is a "free-for-all" with "no hierarchy of officials or organization to ensure purity and adhere to agreed-upon sets of facts and poses, rules and procedures, outcomes and benefits." Broad is correct -- there isn't a government oversight committee dedicated to yoga practice. And that's because many practitioners prefer it that way. "Yoga comes from India. Things are not uniform by tradition," said Gyandev McCord, who has taught yoga for 25 years. In an effort to provide a common ground for the diverse practice of yoga, a group of seasoned yoga practitioners -- "yogis" -- came together in 1999 to form the Yoga Alliance, a nonprofit organization whose sole purpose is to create minimum standards for yoga teacher training. Fearing government or insurance companies might step in and start calling the shots, the alliance set forth to self-regulate, said McCord, who is the co-founder and vice chairman of the organization. It is for yogis, by yogis. After all, McCord said, those "who don't understand the landscape of yoga aren't qualified" to regulate the standards for teaching. Anyone trained by schools registered with the Yoga Alliance completes 200 or 500 hours of training, based on the following five principles: yoga techniques, including poses, breathing and meditation; general teaching methodology; anatomy and physiology; yoga philosophy and ethics; and training, practicum, and supervised teaching, in which senior instructors observe trainees to identify and correct any issues. McCord said the five principles allow for "a lot of wiggle room," and aim to protect and promote the teacher's individuality. Once trained, the instructors are certified by their school and their names are listed on a registry that informs the public of teachers in their area who have completed the minimum standards for yoga instruction. Yoga Alliance-trained teachers may also use the trademarked "RYT" -- registered yoga teacher -- behind their name, indicating they've completed the required hours. Not all members of the yoga community are on board with this approach, however. Leslie Kaminoff, co-founder of the Breathing Project, a nonprofit that provides continuing education to yoga practitioners, disagrees with yoga regulation of any kind. He believes in a free market approach to regulations for yoga teacher training. "Yoga is about freedom," he said, "The market place is the ultimate quality control." Yoga instruction, he said, is about a relationship between a teacher and a student. If a teacher is trained to teach yoga on the Internet or by a DVD at home and the student is fine with it, it's really nobody's business. McCord said he has no problem with that approach. "It's not illegal to teach without training as a teacher," he said. But Palese is more wary. He believes that learning how to align properly is something that needs an "expert eye," one that can't be achieved by watching a DVD. "Anyone can tell you what to do, it's explaining how to do it," he said. And that is what separates effective teachers from the rest, according to Palese. "It's alignment with awareness," he said. Palese trains teachers at a studio where he teaches in suburban Atlanta. His 200-hour training class meets one weekend a month for 10 months, a long stretch of time imperative to the teaching process. "You need time for information to settle," Palese said. Since yoga instruction is far more complex than just leading students to do poses, Palese said he reserves the right to extend the training past 10 months if needed. He wants to give his new teachers whatever time they need to assimilate the information so that they can feel confident teaching others. "It's the integrity and the awareness that the teacher brings to class that is most important," Palese said. Palese said successful teachers are committed to the safety for their students and will provide suggestions for modification, as well as props like belts, blankets and blocks to make those modifications. A willingness to adapt the practice for different audiences and environments helps too. "I've taught yoga in the oddest of places," he said. Good teachers "can teach yoga in an auditorium, a prison, a hospital." They "can transform the whole thing just by who they are."
(Entertainment Weekly) -- Score a personal best at the box office for Quentin Tarantino this weekend. "Inglourious Basterds," his revisionist take on WWII starring Brad Pitt, grossed an estimated $37.6 million, besting the reigning box office champ "District 9," and giving beleaguered studio The Weinstein Co. a little financial relief. "Inglourious Basterds," a revisionist take on WWII starring Brad Pitt, grossed an estimated $37.6 million. "Basterds'" opening far surpasses Tarantino's previous best opener, "Kill Bill Vol. 2," which brought in $25 million in April 2004. The critical question now is how "Basterds" will hold up during the next few weeks. Since Weinstein only has domestic rights to the movie -- Universal Pictures holds international -- a large overall gross stateside is mandatory for the company. Warner Bros. had a much harder time with its release "Shorts" from auteur Robert Rodriguez. Opening to only $6.6 million, the PG-rated kid flick landed in a weak 6th place finish for its opening frame. The only other new release to reach the top ten was Fox Searchlight's post-college flick "Post Grad" starring Alexis Bledel. Despite opening in 1,959 locations, the film grossed only an estimated $2.8 million for the three days. Among holdovers, "District 9" did incredibly well considering Basterds was angling directly for its male audience. The $30 million sci-fi movie from newcomer Neil Blomkamp dropped a scant 49% to $18.9 million putting its total ten day gross at an impressive $73 million. "G.I. Joe" also hung in for its third week in theaters. The high-octane actioner fell only 44 percent to $12.5 million. It's three-week cume now stands at $120 million. Female moviegoers helped keep "The Time Traveler's Wife" and "Julie & Julia" in the top five. "Time Traveler" dropped only 46 percent to $10 million its second week putting its ten-day gross at $37.4 million while "Julie & Julia" fell only 25 percent, which is remarkable considering the movie is in its third week of release. Grossing $9 million for the three days, the Meryl Streep, Amy Adams two-hander has now earned $59 million total. Thanks to the strong opening of "Basterds" and the solid hold of the incumbent films, the box office was up 26 percent compared to the same time last year. It's the third week in a row the box office was up after four weekends of unimpressive results. Next weekend's horror mash-up of "Halloween II" and "The Final Destination 3-D" should yield some positive results too. CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly . Copyright 2009 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
Based on the hundreds of e-mails, Facebook comments and Tweets I've read in response to my denunciation of Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell's decision to honor Confederates for their involvement in the Civil War -- which was based on the desire to continue slavery -- the one consistent thing that supporters of the proclamation offer up as a defense is that these individuals were fighting for what they believed in and defending their homeland. In criticizing me for saying that celebrating the Confederates was akin to honoring Nazi soldiers for killing of Jews during the Holocaust, Rob Wagner said, "I am simply defending the honor and dignity of men who were given no choice other than to fight, some as young as thirteen." Sherry Callahan said that supporting the Confederacy is "our history. Not hate; it's about heritage and history." Javier Ramirez called slavery evil, but prefaced his remarks by saying that "Confederate soldiers were never seen as terrorists by [President Abraham] Lincoln or U.S. generals on the battlefield. They were accorded POW status, they were never tried for war crimes. Not once did Confederate soldiers do any damage to civilians or their property in their invasion of the north. The same is not true of Union soldiers." Realskirkland sent me a Tweet saying, "Slavery is appalling, but was not the only reason for the CW [Civil War]. Those men, while misguided on some fronts stood up for what they felt was right. They embodied that American ideal that the states have a right to govern themselves. THAT is what a confederate soldier stood for." If you take all of these comments, don't they sound eerily similar to what we hear today from Muslim extremists who have pledged their lives to defend the honor of Allah and to defeat the infidels in the West? When you make the argument that the South was angry with the North for "invading" its "homeland," Osama bin Laden has said the same about U.S. soldiers being on Arab soil. He has objected to our bases in Saudi Arabia, and that's one of the reasons he has launched his jihad against us. Is there really that much of a difference between him and the Confederates? Same language; same cause; same effect. If a Confederate soldier was merely doing his job in defending his homeland, honor and heritage, what are we to say about young Muslim radicals who say the exact same thing as their rationale for strapping bombs on their bodies and blowing up cafes and buildings? If the Sons of Confederate Veterans use as a talking point the vicious manner in which people in the South were treated by the North, doesn't that sound exactly like the Taliban saying they want to kill Americans for the slaughter of innocent people in Afghanistan? Defenders of the Confederacy say that innocent people were killed in the Civil War; hasn't the same argument been presented by Muslim radicals in Iraq, Afghanistan and other places where the U.S. has tangled with terrorists? We can't on the one hand justify the actions of Confederates as being their duty as valiant men of the South, and then condemn the Muslim extremists who want to see Americans die a brutal death. These men are held up as honorable by their brethren, so why do Americans see them as different from our homegrown terrorists? The fundamental problem with extremism is that when you're on the side that is fanatical, all of your actions make sense to you, and you are fluent in trying to justify every action. Every position of those you oppose is a personal affront that calls for you to do what you think is necessary to protect yourself and your family. Just as radical Muslims have a warped sense of religion, Confederate supporters have a delusional view of what is honorable. The terrorists are willing to kill their own to prove their point, and the Confederates were just as willing in the Civil War to take up arms against their fellow Americans to justify their point. Even if you're a relative of one of the 9/11 hijackers, that man was an out-and-out terrorist, and nothing you can say will change that. And if your great-great-great-granddaddy was a Confederate who stood up for Southern ideals, he too was a terrorist. They are the same. As a matter of conscience, I will not justify, understand or accept the atrocious view of Muslim terrorists that their actions represent a just war. They are reprehensible, and their actions a sin against humanity. And I will never, under any circumstances, cast Confederates as heroic figures who should be honored and revered. No -- they were, and forever will be, domestic terrorists. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Roland Martin.
Here is the question: Can it be called a Michael Bay film if there are no explosions? With "Pain & Gain," the director best known for action-packed films such as the "Transformers" franchise and "Armageddon" goes decidedly smaller, though no less hefty in the over-the-top nature. The film -- which opens Friday -- stars Mark Wahlberg, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson and Anthony Mackie as a trio of hapless bodybuilders who launch a harebrained kidnapping scheme. An action-comedy, it's based on the true story of a murderous gang in Florida in the 1990s, which included a group of bodybuilders. Unlike Bay's other projects that have found him alternately hailed and crucified (he appears on both an Internet Movie Database list of all-time worst and best movie directors), there is a dearth of stylized car chases, massive guns and things blowing up. "Pain & Gain" was not conceived as a massively budgeted, summer blockbuster. "I wanted to do a quirky movie," Bay told The New York Times. "I wanted to do something small, just actors acting. It was almost like film school again for me." Film school? For the man who brought the world "Bad Boys" and "Bad Boys II"? Perhaps that is why Jack Giroux at the Film School Rejects site penned "The Case for Michael Bay as Visionary Auteur." "A Michael Bay picture is many, many things," Giroux writes. "The global showman has made his career off shiny money shots, a broad sense of humor, solid on-screen pairings, well-orchestrated chaos, and much more." Despite the fact the new film isn't like most of his other movies, Giroux sees elements of Bay in in it. "The director's newest movie, the abrasively entertaining 'Pain & Gain,' carries on those trademark signatures in many ways," he says. "It's not the explosions which make him an auteur, it's the little things that make his human stories more meaningful than what we see from most blockbuster directors." Bay probably agrees. He told CNN his latest project reminds him of another of his summer films from many years ago. "I do like releasing films in summer, but this is a small little movie, but it's got a little of that 'Bad Boys' vibe to it," Bay said. "So this kind of goes back to my roots. I like low-budget movies, and this is a character piece." Forbes contributor Scott Mendelson notes that "it's no secret that films like 'Pearl Harbor' (an epic romantic drama set during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor) and 'The Island' (a science-fiction thriller that serves as a parable for the perils of genetic science and/or abortion) were Michael Bay's attempts at artistic legitimacy. "They didn't quite work out, leading Bay to somewhat surrender and helm a big budget trilogy based on a toy line about cars/planes that turn into robots and fight each other," Mendelson writes. "So here in 'Pain & Gain' we see the return of 'serious' Michael Bay." Wahlberg told The New York Times he had full faith in Bay -- who has also cast the star in his next "Transformers" film. "You get the artsy-fartsy guys of the world who do these little quirky comedies or dramas, that think they're cool and they're the artists," the actor told the paper. "But he can do the stuff that other guys can't do." Co-star Ken Jeong, who is best known for "The Hangover" films, told The Hollywood Reporter that "Pain & Gain" is "one of best Michael Bay's films ever." For his part, Bay seemed to have enjoyed the respite that came with being scaled down. He told CNN he tried to keep things intimate on the set. "It's really refreshing just to have actors act, you know? On 'Transformers' you are dealing with 2,000 people. This is much smaller, intimate, like a 100-person crew!"
(Departures) -- The English countryside -- still green, still rolling, still packed with charming eccentrics -- is more appealing than ever these days, as overwhelmed urbanites are flooding the area in search of a rural idyll. It's been more than 100 years since Oscar Wilde wrote, "Anybody can be good in the country. There are no temptations there." These days, all irony aside, quite the opposite is true. The shires are far from unsophisticated, even if one still must trade Louboutins for Wellingtons when taking those long country walks. The best new additions to the area -- like the ones assembled here -- respect their past, no matter how thoroughly modern they might be. From the dells of Devon to the wooded countryside of Hampshire, from charming Cotswold villages to the Brontës' wild northern moors, the evidence is manifold. Crumbling estates have been restored into plush, contemporary hotels. And more are still to come: The Nina Campbell-designed Ellenborough Park debuts near Cheltenham in May, and a year from now, ex-Skibo Castle hand Charles Oak will open Heckfield Place in Hampshire. Such is the mood afoot in England, with old-fashioned pubs serving inventive cuisine and upscale stores and spas catering to a cosmopolitan crowd. Today, Wilde be damned, the English countryside is very tempting indeed. Departures: What $500 buys in Austin . 1. In Full Bloom: Barnsley House Barnsley, Gloucestershire . By the end of last year, the modern London design house Fox Linton Associates had left its mark not only on Coworth Park but also on the redo of this 18-bedroom property in the Cotswolds. Before becoming a hotel in 2003, the house was the longtime residence of garden designer Rosemary Verey, who filled the 11-acre grounds with purple alliums and weeping cherry trees; now the hotel's bold interiors have been redone to better reflect Verey's aesthetic. Garden-inspired furniture and soft creams and whites play off honeyed stone, and the spa pays further homage to Verey with treatments that highlight the rejuvenating power of plants. The nearby Village Pub, from the same owners, consistently delivers a cozy atmosphere and very good seasonal food, such as Dorset crab, ham hock salad or a bowl of clams and mussels with Cotswold cider, parsley and cream. Rooms start at $435. At Rte. B4425; 44-12/8574-0000; barnsleyhouse.com. Departures: World's best golf destinations . 2. A New Tradition: Lime Wood Lyndhurst, Hampshire . Hampshire County is among the most desirable regions for wealthy Londoners seeking weekend retreats, and there have long been good hotels here. Now inns like The Master Builder's at Buckler's Hard (themasterbuilders.co.uk) offer some of the area's top accommodations for less than $250 (choice rooms are in the 18th-century main building). But the big news is Lime Wood, a 29-room spot in the middle of the old-growth New Forest that combines luxe design with seamless service. The interiors are by David Collins -- known for doing the bars at several chic London hotels, including Claridge's -- with sun-soaked ash rooms and an eclectic mix of antique and bespoke furniture. The 22,000-square-foot organic spa, which opened this winter, is the best of its size outside London. Rooms start at $385. At Beaulieu Rd.; 44-23/8028-7177; limewoodhotel.co.uk. Departures: Best spas for 2011 . 3. Pastoral Paradise: Hay Barn Spa Daylesford, Gloucestershire . On her 1,500-acre Cotswolds estate, designer Carole Bamford (the force behind the popular Bamford clothing lines) has created Daylesford Organic, a rural oasis dedicated to organic farming. Beginning in 2003 with an upscale food market selling products cultivated on-site, Daylesford now has a café, a cooking school and a clothing store, and it's become a destination for a certain London sort (Kate Moss, Liz Hurley, Kate Winslet) who makes the 90-minute drive from the city or has a country home nearby. The real delight, though, is Hay Barn, a tiny day spa and yoga studio with an ecoconscious sensibility: Wool from Daylesford's sheep insulates the spa's sustainable wood walls, and therapies feature organic, chemical-free products, many from the Bamford Body line. Treatments start at $80. At Rte. A436; daylesfordorganic.com. Bottled Britain . Carole Bamford's five-year-old Bamford Body line of organic products is now available in the States at Barneys New York. Packaged in recyclable materials, the collection uses natural ingredients like rosemary, chamomile and eucalyptus. From $15. 4. Polo Grounds: Coworth Park Ascot, Berkshire . This restored 18th-century Georgian manor, the latest property from the Dorchester Collection, opened in the fall on 240 acres, only 15 minutes from Heathrow and within walking distance of Windsor Great Park, home of the prestigious Guards Polo Club. But there's no need to leave the property to play the sport of kings: Coworth Park is the only hotel in the United Kingdom that has its own polo fields (built in the mid-1980s by former resident, Selfridges owner Galen Weston). Coworth guests can ride the grounds themselves and watch professional matches from April through September. There's also a spa (the Dr. Alkaitis-brand facials use 100 percent edible ingredients) and three restaurants from Michelin-starred chef John Campbell. Rooms start at $375. At Blacknest Rd.; 44-13/4487-6600; coworthpark.com. 5. A Chef Comes Home: Hix Oyster and Fish House Lyme Regis, Dorset . The Jurassic Coast, three hours from London in western Dorset, is home to some of England's finest ingredients: hedgerow berries, common nettles, lamb, cod, Dover sole. So it comes as little surprise that the area is increasingly attracting British gastronomes, like London-based, Dorset-born chef Mark Hix, who opened this 45-seat spot in 2008. Perched above the horseshoe-shaped harbor, the restaurant has drawn a discriminating crowd, and Hix also hosts cooking demonstrations and supper clubs led by well-known writers, artists and chefs. The balcony is delightful at lunch, especially for Portland Royal oysters served with a glass of Sancerre. Dinner starts at $50. At Cobb Rd.; 44-12/9744-6910; hixoysterandfishhouse.co.uk. Departures: Spring's hottest gadgets . 6. Under the Big Top: Giffords Circus Cirencester, Gloucestershire . The brainchild of Nell Gifford -- who often gets in on the act herself -- this fairy tale re-creation of a traditional 1930s touring circus (dancing horses, twirling acrobats) first took grip of the country's imagination in May 2000 at the Hay-on-Wye literary festival. With just 360 spectators, the performances have a magical intimacy, the storytelling appealing to adults and children alike, and after evening shows, guests are invited to dine with the cast in a fairy light-strewn tent. Debuting in May, the 2011 show, War and Peace at the Circus, will feature scenes inspired by Tolstoy's epic novel. Adults, $35; children, $20. 44-84/5459-7469; giffordscircus.com. 7. Secret Gardens: Amberley Castle Amberley, West Sussex . The British love of garden follies -- fountains, aviaries, pavilions -- has had a resurgence in recent years as a spate of fanciful creations have emerged across the country. The most ambitious is Butterfly World, a $40 million development conceived by British lepidopterist Clive Farrell, which will be the world's largest indoor butterfly house when it's completed in Hertfordshire next year. On a much smaller scale, there's Amberley Castle's Mistletoe Lodge, a private dining space for just two. Perched in the branches of an enormous poplar tree in a quiet corner of the property, the thatched-roof treehouse offers an intimate spot to enjoy dishes like rare roast beef with truffles and vegetables. Rooms start at $365; dinner, $635. At Rte. B2139; 44-17/9883-1992; amberleycastle.co.uk. English Eats Thyme at Southrop is more than an excellent new cooking school. This historic Cotswolds estate now includes four pretty cottages to rent and an exceptional gastropub, The Swan. Courses start at $75; cottages, from $285; thymeatsouthrop.co.uk. 8. Parties by Design: Sophie Conran for Temple Guiting Temple Guiting, Gloucestershire . As the daughter of design guru Terence Conran (of the eponymous shops), Sophie Conran grew up surrounded by some of the world's most creative minds. Now she's opened up her Rolodex, curating country house parties in a converted barn at a 15th-century stone manor in the Cotswolds. Conran tailors each retreat to guests' requests, then calls on her expert friends to deliver the experience: French cooking classes with Michelin-starred chef Eric Chavot, say, or millinery workshops with Rachel Trevor-Morgan, who has created headpieces for the Queen. Conran also redesigned the barn at Temple Guiting to create five unique guest suites. Rooms start at $375. At Rte. B4077; 44-20/7706-1309; sophieconrantg.com. Establishment accepts no charge/credit cards or accepts cards other than the American Express Card. 9. Back to the Beach: The Cary Arms Babbacombe Beach, Devon . The thriving British beach holiday of the 19th century waned over the years as travel to other European seaside resorts became more alluring. But the UK coast is back with this 1920s seaside inn that's been redone by its new owners, Lana and Peter de Savary. The de Savarys clearly know luxury -- Peter reconceived Scotland's Skibo Castle as a lavish members-only club -- and they've injected some panache to the modest inn. The eight rooms and three converted fisherman's cottages have a crisp New England feel, and most overlook Babbacombe Bay, where dramatic red cliffs meet a dolphin-dotted sea. Rooms start at $240. At Beach Rd.; 44-18/0332-7110; caryarms.co.uk. 10. Pub Hub: The Devonshire Arms at Pilsley Pilsley, Derbyshire . It's no secret that the English pub, once a place of beer and cigarettes, has grown increasingly posh over the years, with so-called gastropub cuisine even winning Michelin stars. In July the Duchess of Devonshire entered the ring with her revamp of this seven-bedroom village pub, close to the well-known family manse, Chatsworth House. With duck's-egg-blue, apple-green and raspberry-pink interiors, the inn has a fresh English aesthetic matched by simple, locally sourced food, not least of all slow-cooked corned-beef hash with fried eggs and treacle tarts -- classic English pastries. Rooms start at $140; dinner, $30. At Rte. A619; 44-12/4658-3258; devonshirepilsley.co.uk. © 2010 American Express Publishing Corporation. All rights reserved.
Iranian pro-government Basij militia members dispersed crowds of protesters here Thursday -- sometimes with force -- witnesses said. Protests by Iranians, such as this one on June 15, have been defended by the reformist figures. An estimated 2,000 to 3,000 people crowded the streets in different locations of the city, and headed toward Tehran University, the site of a student uprising in 1999. Several protesters were hit on the arms and backs by the Basij, pro-government militia members, while elsewhere riot police released tear gas into crowds. Iran's state-funded Press TV described the crowd size near the university in the hundreds. Some of the protesters shouted "Allah u Akbar," or "God is Great" and "Ya Hussein, Mir Hussein" referring to opposition candidate Mir Hossein Moussavi, the witnesses said. Police blocked roads leading to Tehran University, while some protesters set trash cans afire so smoke would counter the effects of the tear gas. When crowds tried to gather between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. in Revolution Square, hundreds of security forces were waiting for them, witnesses told CNN.  Watch scenes of protesters and street clashes » . Most of the security forces were uniformed officers wearing helmets and holding batons and shields, though many wore plain clothes. The forces ordered bystanders to move along, the witnesses said. There were at least five reports of clashes during this time. Over the next two hours, the crowds grew to around 3,000, but witnesses said security forces grew too. Many of the protesters left Revolution Square and marched to side streets and neighborhoods a few kilometers away. Many held up victory signs and clapped. The contents of several Dumpsters were set afire. See the protests and violence through Iranians' own photos . Witnesses said they heard several pops that sounded like gunshots and saw security forces fire what appeared to be pepper spray towards the crowds on several occasions. Some of the chants heard Thursday were familiar refrains that have been repeated often in recent days: . "Death to the Dictator!" "Death to Khamenei!" But a new phrase entered the lexicon on Thursday that referred to Mojtaba, the son of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamanei: "Mojtaba bemire, rahbariroh nagiri," they chanted: "Die, Mojtaba, so you don't become the supreme leader!" During the past week, rumors have surfaced that Mojtaba has taken over the pro-government Basij militia and that his father is grooming him to be the next supreme leader. Thursday marked the first time protesters chanted against him. By nightfall, most of the demonstrators headed home. At 10 p.m. Tehran time two sources told CNN the chants of "God is great!" were louder than usual in their neighborhoods. The demonstration took place on the 10th anniversary of a student uprising that posed a major threat to the Islamic regime. On Thursday, the protesters used the anniversary to resume demonstrations against the outcome of the contested June 12 presidential election. Iranian-American journalist Jason Rezaian said Iranians have been scared since last month's bloody crackdown on those who protested the accuracy of election results. Incumbent Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was declared the winner by a landslide over reformist candidate Moussavi, his chief rival, who declared the election rigged. Moussavi's supporters took to the streets by the thousands in the aftermath of the vote until the protests turned bloody as security forces cracked down. Iranian state-run media said 20 people have been killed and more than 1,000 have been detained. On July 9, 1999, known in the Iranian calendar as the 18th of Tir, 200 students protested the closing of a reformist newspaper, Salaam, which supported moderate President Mohammed Khatami. Hard-line activists entered dormitories in Tehran University, broke windows, set fires and attacked students. Six days of protests ensued. According to Human Rights Watch, more than 25,000 people participated, making the demonstrations the biggest threat to the Islamic regime since its inception in 1979. CNN's CNN's Reza Sayah and Moni Basu in Atlanta, Georgia, contributed to this report.
The Department of Veterans Affairs says it will study the effects of toxic emissions from burning trash at military installations in Iraq and Afghanistan on veterans, even after the Department of Defense has concluded no long-term effects exist. Studies of the smoke from the burn pits suggests it contains dioxin and other toxins. The extent of the VA's intention was discussed in a letter to concerned congressmen that was sent on Friday and obtained by CNN. In the letter responding to the congressmen's inquiry on the subject, VA Secretary Eric Shinseki said he shared "concerns that some veterans could have health problems from such exposures." "Our previous experiences with returning Vietnam War and Gulf War veterans show that we must take these concerns very seriously," he added. Shinseki said the Department of Veterans Affairs will study the problem as part of an effort to analyze effects of troops' exposures in general and suggested it might even seek a parallel independent study. "We are currently evaluating the need for an independent assessment by nongovernmental scientific experts to help us understand the health effects of various combat exposures," Shinseki wrote. Sources familiar with the plan said the VA is finalizing a deal with the government's Institute of Medicine to conduct the study. The IOM did a similar investigation of Gulf War Syndrome and other effects from the first Iraq war. The emissions, from what are known as burn pits, have been a concern for troops, especially those who served at Balad Air Force Base in Iraq. Many soldiers who went through Balad became used to "Iraqi crud," as they dubbed the symptom of excessive coughing and black phlegm. Soldiers complained of respiratory problems and skin infections, and in some cases believed they developed leukemia and tumors from the exposure. The pits at Balad were at one point open and burning everything from plastics and food to medical waste, sometimes with jet fuel used as an accelerant. In later years, incinerators were installed at Balad, but other bases in Iraq and Afghanistan still use the pits without incinerators to burn garbage. The military said last year that smoke from the Balad pit exposed troops to toxic emissions, including low levels of cancer-causing dioxins. However, its tests indicated there is no long-term danger, officials said. The U.S. Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine (USACHPPM) conducted a study of air samples at Balad after concerns were raised about the toxic nature of the pervasive smoke from the incineration pits. The air samples were collected between January and April 2007. But the report admitted that it cannot account for everything burned in the pit. An additional 107 samples were collected in October and November 2007. The results of those tests will be released early in 2009. Many in the veterans' community remain unconvinced that burn pits were harmless. A group from Congress wrote to the Department of Defense and the VA demanding more tests. In his response, Shinseki said the veterans department has an ongoing study comparing 30,000 veterans deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan and 30,000 nondeployed veterans. It is evaluating "self reported exposures (including burning trash and feces), symptoms, chronic health conditions, functional status, pregnancy outcomes and health care utilization," Shinseki wrote. Most relevant to the burn pit concerns, Shinseki said the VA will "work with the DoD to obtain all relevant exposure data with the goal of establishing potential correlations with health problems among affected veterans." "Our scientists will also review data gathered from DoD's Post Deployment Health Assessment surveys, which ask about exposures to smoke from burn pits, subsequent symptoms, and a variety of other health related questions," Shinseki wrote. "VA will evaluate the feasibility of monitoring toxic substances in veterans, although most toxic materials from burn pits may be eliminated from the bodies of exposed veterans in a matter of days or weeks." Rep. Tim Bishop, D-New York, a leading congressional agitator for further inquiry into this subject, said he was encouraged by the response. "Since time is of the essence and the lives of our troops and veterans are at stake, we expect the Department of Defense will fully cooperate with the VA, so that these analyses can be completed as quickly and accurately as possible," Bishop said in a statement. Kerry Baker, with the group Disabled American Veterans, said the response is a start but not as focused on the burn pit issue as his group would have liked. "This is a decent letter, but it doesn't get to the root of the problem," Baker said. "I would like to see them do studies on surrounding areas near burn pits compared to nondeployed troops." The VA's decision to look at exposures beyond the burn pits reflects its experience looking into Gulf War Syndrome, VA spokesman Jim Benson said. The department recognizes that it needs to start now to investigate long-term affects for burn pit exposure as well as potential exposures that might lead to illness down the road. "What we found is after the first Gulf War when a possible threat would be identified, the VA and DoD would go all-out looking at that particular problem. Now we are structuring a broad-based program that isn't going to just ask "were you around burn pits" but ask "how is your health" in general, Benson explained. In the meantime, Benson explained, veterans with health issues they believe are related to the burn pits will get the health care they need from the VA. "The studies will provide us with the larger picture of the risks the veterans have gone through," explained Benson. "We have the medicine and facilities to give them the care while the doctors are sorting out what caused what." Disabled American Veterans has started collecting information on veterans concerned with exposure. Its database of nearly 200 veterans with significant exposure to the burn pits shows nearly a third have contracted cancer and another third have developed pulmonary issues, according to the group. Skin lesions and allergy symptoms have also arisen. Benson said the VA has not seen evidence so far of significant levels of leukemia and cancer, but he said that does not mean the problem does not exist or may not arise. "The key is the research needs to make that connection between the exposure and the disease. Some of those things don't match up, but that's what the research has to validate," Benson said. "This does not preclude us from health care if they provide this is service-connected," Benson said. "If something is wrong with you that is related or you think is related to military service, the doors are wide open," Benson said.
One of the heroes of the French Resistance against Nazi occupation, Raymond Aubrac, has died in Paris at the age of 97. With his passing, France has lost one of its few remaining links to an era that brought both humiliation and inspiration. French President Nicolas Sarkozy paid tribute to Aubrac Wednesday. "These heroes of the shadows who saved France's honor at a time when it seemed lost are disappearing one after the other," he said. Foreign Minister Alain Juppe also spoke admiringly of Aubrac. "His commitment, his courage, his refusal to give up, his attachment to the pride of France," Juppe said, "made him a hero of the Resistance -- notably alongside his wife, Lucie Aubrac." Aubrac was a Jew of Polish origin whose real name was Raymond Samuel. Born in 1914, he studied at Harvard before joining the French army. The Germans took him prisoner in 1940 but he escaped and with Lucie applied for visas to live in the United States. But they reconsidered the decision. "We changed our minds: Could we really leave our families and our friends behind while our country was occupied?" she later wrote. Hanna Diamond, an expert on wartime France and professor at the University of Bath in England, says Raymond and his wife were important in the Resistance as founding members of a group called Liberation-Sud, based in Lyon. Diamond met the Aubracs and wrote "Fleeing Hitler: France 1940." She said that many like-minded people fled to the unoccupied part of France and used the relative freedom they had there to organize. Among them was Jean Moulin, a charismatic leader credited with bringing together different groups of the resistance. In June 1943 Moulin and Aubrac were captured, along with other resistance leaders, by the Lyon Gestapo, led at the time by the infamous Klaus Barbie. Barbie interrogated Moulin, and he was tortured to death. In a BBC interview earlier this year, Aubrac recalled that fateful day. "I was sitting beside Moulin and when the Gestapo burst in, he told me: 'I have a piece of paper in my pocket. Make it disappear.' "So I put my hand in his pocket and took out the paper and swallowed it - which is not easy. I have no idea what was written on it. "After the war, I came back to the house in Caluire -- and there on the mantelpiece in the waiting room was my pipe. Exactly where I had left it when the Gestapo came!" Months after the arrests, Lucie -- though pregnant at the time -- organized one of the most dramatic rescues of the Resistance. She persuaded the Germans that she was pregnant by Raymond but not married to him (which was untrue). The ruse worked and he was taken to the police headquarters in Lyon for a marriage ceremony. On the way back to the jail, Resistance fighters ambushed the detainees' truck. Raymond and 13 other prisoners fled. Barbie was put on trial in Lyon in 1987. He was charged with crimes against humanity for organizing the mass deportation of Jews from Lyon, as well as ordering massacres and carrying out torture. He was convicted and sentenced to life in prison and he died behind bars. Lucie died five years ago. Her fictionalized account of the couple's wartime exploits, translated into English as "Outwitting the Gestapo," was turned into a film in 1997, directed by Claude Berri. In the chaotic aftermath of the liberation in June 1944, Aubrac became the commissioner of the new Republic in the port of Marseille. It was a time of nightmares, he recalled, with summary executions and retribution, a lack of government and no rule of law. For many years after the war Aubrac talked to schools about the Resistance and its goals. His message, he told the French newspaper Le Monde last month, was this: "One thing always guided us -- optimism, the conviction that through what we were doing we could bring change. That's what I tell young people. If you begin feeling beaten, you will achieve nothing. If you fight you will perhaps have a chance of achieving something." But just who did what in the Resistance has frequently been a source of heated debate in France where there's been much agonizing about collaboration with the Nazis and ambivalence about the Resistance. Diamond says there was also something of a backlash in France about the Aubracs' celebrity. And in their waning years the role of the Aubracs was questioned because their accounts contained inconsistencies. A book published in 1997 even implicated the couple in the arrest of Resistance leaders at their meeting in June 1943. The book included allegations from Klaus Barbie himself, who asserted that the Aubracs were the double agents who had informed him of the meeting. The couple later successfully sued the author. But Diamond says the allegations deeply wounded them. Another source of regret for Raymond Aubrac was his failure to persuade his parents to leave France for the safety of Switzerland even though he had secured false papers for them. "My mother wanted to leave," he later recalled, "but my father paradoxically still had faith in Marshal Petain" -- then the ruler of Vichy France, the part unoccupied by Nazi forces. His parents were later captured by the French Milice (French Militia) and handed over to the Gestapo, and then transported to the concentration camp at Auschwitz where they died. To the very end, Aubrac preferred thinking of the present and the future rather than his storied past. In his interview with Le Monde last month he recalled studying at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1937 under the great economist Joseph Schumpeter who had taught that technological change transformed civilizations as well as economies. "There is now a generation of young people for whom there is nothing on offer," he said. "They don't feel that society needs them, that they should prepare to play a role. When they tell me they will be unemployed, whatever they do, I find that very troubling." Asked what he was most proud of, he replied his decision to be with Lucie. They were married for 68 years. "In life, you know, there are three or four fundamental choices. The rest is a matter of luck."
(CNN)What is beauty? What role does it have in spirituality? Is it in the eye of the beholder? These seemingly innocuous questions have snowballed into a bitter polemic on the Catholic altar, where a battle of aesthetic titans has ensued: religious scholars versus the so-called "starchitects" who have earned multimillion-dollar contracts to build megachurches for the new millennium. To arbitrate, Italian photographer Andrea Di Martino looked to find meaning in these newly built houses of God. "I wanted to photograph new-but-already-established churches from this millennium ... but I had to explain to a lot of people that I wasn't documenting the demise of the Catholic Church or even the loss of churchgoers but how these churches have now become part of the establishment," he said. From Turin to Rome, Di Martino zigzagged through cities where celebrity architects hoped their designs would add to Italy's great architectural landscape. Photographing the works of architectural giants such as Paolo Portoghesi, Mario Botta, Richard Meier, Renzo Piano and others, Di Martino explored whether there is a historical continuum with the traditions of Brunelleschi, Bernini, Da Vinci and other artistic geniuses whose religious reverence helped build some of the world's greatest monuments. Di Martino used a formal approach, photographing these churches from an egalitarian perspective. His camera takes a centralized position to allow the architectural concepts to get fair play. Photography, he hoped, could translate the aesthetic decisions behind some very controversial and expensive designs that, to some people, are unrecognizable as churches. In Turin, which hosts the Holy Shroud, Di Martino photographed Botta's Church of Santo Volto. Standing in what was a depressed steelwork factory, the church has received endless accolades by design experts around the world. But it has also been criticized by Vatican members and religious scholars who say they are extremely materialistic, devoid of spiritual references and divorced from the Catholic dogma. At the other end of the discussion, these new architects are building a new vision for the future. Botta's work is often called "revolutionary" and "genius," and some have put it in the company of Le Corbusier and Niemeyer. The crux of the issue: Is there a continuum with the past? Does it follow the Catholic Church's norms, defined by decree, for what is a church? In an online interview, Botta acknowledged the struggle. "To build a church nowadays is to come face to face with millenary history and, whether I like it or not, I find myself (confronting) these historical issues," he said. Di Martino said that when he stood outside photographing these churches, he rarely got a positive response. "I know you can't build Baroque churches today, but there is definitely a disconnect between the populace and the ideas of these architects," Di Martino said. "The big issue is that we are in search of a model that can represent our era. And we haven't found one." Vatican officials have lashed out against what they see as a diversion from dictates on how to build a church according to Catholic liturgy. These laws, however, have been subject to interpretation. Social media . Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. The Diocese of Turin, for instance, defends its decision to stand by Botta's design, claiming it adheres to Catholic dogma on aesthetics. The seven-tower church with skylights is a symbolic play on the use of natural light in ritual and divinity. The industrial-looking church complex blends in with the area associated with Turin's working class. To the common eye, these towers may seem more like giant chimneys, a reference to the industrial, working-class area. Photographing inside this monumental building is a different story. Liturgical tradition is referenced, but only slightly. Di Martino photographs the pixelated image of the Holy Face, a "half-cross" by the altar, every element illuminated by natural light. A possible allusion that God is omnipresent in the digital age? In Rome, Meier was tasked to build a church in the city's somewhat derelict outskirts of Rome in an area called Tor Tre Teste. Perched like a white pearl amid tired tower blocks and parking lots, Meier's Jubilee Church is simple and reflects light like other Meier buildings. It is a clean, clear-cut design. But where is the recognizable iconography and other elements that help situate Catholics in this era of rationalist architecture? Di Martino, who said his style is really photojournalism, has great interest in social issues. Photographing modern buildings makes sense in his body of work, he said. "I approach architecture in the same way. I am interested in how man is placed in this design, even though I photograph these buildings without people," he said. "They are not there, but I still like to narrate their story." Andrea Di Martino is an Italian photographer based in Milan. You can follow him on Facebook and Twitter.
